---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/boxpv0lle4g"

date: 2022-12-16
title: Best Of Queer Media 2022
runtime: 29:08
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20221216+bOXpv0llE4g+Best+Of+Queer+Media+2022.webm"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-public-records/Best+Of+Queer+Media+2022.mp4"
# description: "a video on <xyz>."

history:
  2022-12-16: First published.
  2023-12-07: Privated post-callout.

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">
<details {% include description-version for="2022-12-16" %}>

Nick's Book!
Amazon: [link]
Everywhere Else: [link]

My Instagram 
[link]

00:00 Intro
01:09 Sandman
04:54 Heartstopper
08:23 Everything Everywhere All At Once
11:28 Interview With The Vampire
14:36 What We Do In The Shadows
18:33 Chucky
21:51 Out Flag Means Death
24:04 American Horror Story

#Bestof #Bestof2022

</details>
</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

hey everyone 2022 was really a year but one thing that I was shocked by was how
much amazing media with queer themes and characters actually came out this year
so I decided to do a top eight queer movies or TV shows of the year and I'm
actually going to be joined today by Nick the co-writer on all of my videos and
since he's joining in today I wanted to announce that his novel gentlemen's club
a really fun story about a teenage queer superhero is going on sale for the
whole month of December for only 299 you can get an ebook of the novel the
critics have called a wall-to-wall delight and a queer superhero Thriller every
reader needs and that I personally think is one of the best queer books to come
out in years and the paperback is also available so to make a great gift for the
queer nerd in your life Link in the description but before we get started don't
forget to like And subscribe and share this video everywhere since YouTube hates
to let my own subscribers know that new videos are out so without any further
Ado let's take a look at the best queer media of 2022 in no particular order in
our own opinion Sandman Neil gaiman's acclaimed graphic novel series finally
reached the small screen with a smash realistically while the comic is popular
and highly regarded I prefer this story as a streaming series rather than I
would have as a film while the sprawling visuals and Beauty atmosphere are
cinematic its cerebral elements would have had to get cut to accommodate a
feature length television especially streaming simply offers a wider range of
what could be explored including an open exploration of queerness make no
mistake Sandman from its conception is a story about the very exploration of
Dreams what dreams mean to people and the ways that dreams reflect on our
reality and especially in this first Arc what a world without dreams is want to
become gaming creates mythology ever so tangential to DC's principal cast of
characters centered around personifications of The Human Experience a family of
siblings called the endless all of whom are named after an abstract concept
starting with the letter D Destiny dream desire death Despair and because gaming
focuses on personal battles in lieu of third act cookie cutter monster fights or
beams of light shooting into the sky Studio heads especially given the state of
Warner Brothers these days doesn't have any reason to understand why it would be
a hit outside of course gaiman's dedicated yet Niche fanbase though really the
largest red flag to the rotating door of middle-aged straight men who spend a
fortune renovating Executive offices for their brief sojourn at the Warner
Brothers headquarters it would be gaiman's weird insistence of putting so many
damn queer people into his [ __ ] even gaiman's original 1988 run of Sandman was
pretty gay for the streaming adaptation he seemed to be adamant that it would be
even care in conjunction with adding more color to the original cast of
characters in a world which consistently accuses creators of forcing diversity
and wokeness Gaiman can safely say he was doing it before it was cool given that
the endless were developed to function as Superior even to Gods especially as
they are depicted in other titles dreams peerage are they themselves beings of
cosmic significance so great that societal Hang-Ups around sex and gender would
be irrelevant the often antagonistic character of desire for instance is
depicted as either neither and or both genders desire as it would apply to
everyone would befit any range of attractions desire doesn't need to have a
gender it only needs to be tantalizing what helps Sandman stand out most of all
however is gaiman's Comfort depicting queer characters who are either villainous
despicable or simply flawed make no mistake they are depicted alongside and
sometimes even interact with queer characters who are vulnerable however with
corporate lens queerness notes from Executives often outline that lgbtq plus
characters must be glowing beacons of morality Paragons of goodness or tragic
figures which while annoying is a very justifiable and preferable reaction to
generations of queer-coded or even explicitly queer villains but that shouldn't
mean that we snap in the opposite direction queer people can be [ __ ] and we
can be competent and a ruthlessness and Sandman is comfortable depicting us as
this as well as compassionate and kind inherently heroic albeit flawed deeply
flawed albeit kind granted it certainly helps when you have Alan heinberg on
board all do credit of course to Neil Gaiman but he's never turned down an
opportunity to collaborate with like-minded creatives with credits such as Sex
In The City the Young Avengers and the good Wonder Woman movie he's one of the
most identifiable queer creators in mainstream media today Gaiman himself is an
award-winning writer for the small and big screen though he did want to expand
the range Awareness on Sandman and it means a lot to include queer voices in
their own representation Heart Stopper heartstopper tells the story of the
absolutely Charming coming-of-age romance between two boys Nick and Charlie
based on the graphic novels of the same name by Alice oseman heartstoppers
seemingly came out of nowhere when it was released this past summer acting as
counter programming to the typical Doom and Gloom of most queer focused stories
in mainstream media this wasn't about gay bashing or death it was just about two
boys falling for each other and one of them coming to terms with his own
bisexuality the show also featured a wonderfully diverse Supporting Cast with
lesbian couple Tara and Darcy actually having their own engaging storyline
throughout the show and trans character L actually getting to be a trans
character whose storyline doesn't revolve around trauma transphobia or hate her
story is about learning that people will like her and even love her for exactly
who she is the Netflix show received almost Universal Acclaim from critics with
many praising it for being the rare queer-centric show to depict a more innocent
side of being a queer teenager and actually being pretty safe for parents to
watch with their kids without having sex pushed to the Forefront though some
people did take issue with what they called a sanitized look at queerness most
viewers embrace the show since premiering it's been renewed for two additional
Seasons which will likely wrap up the story that's being told in the graphic
novels and season 2 has already completed shooting but the show hasn't been
without its controversies after the cancellation of another Netflix show with
two queer lead characters first kill the streaming service was accused of
choosing a gay-centric show over a lesbian-centric show since at a glance first
kill had higher viewership numbers than heartstopper the cancellation grew out
of more nuanced information that most streamers don't usually make public though
in this case that would be the completion rate of the series meaning how many
people watched the first episode and then finished watching every episode in the
season within the first 30 days lots of caveats there viewership for first kill
dropped off drastically about halfway through the season while it stayed solid
for Heart Stopper which was also a much cheaper show to produce but luckily
though first kill was canceled there is a lesbian couple in heartstopper and
some great Sapphic horror representation in other Netflix properties like the
Fear Street Trilogy and even stranger things and of course I'd be remiss not to
mention the toxic fandom that grew up around the show that demanded kit Connor
the actor playing Nick on the show reveal his sexuality to the world at the age
of 18. there's a 45 minute long video on my Channel with me talking about that
so I won't go into too much detail about it here but suffice to say it sucked
don't do that to people Heart Stopper managed to be a ray of queer sunshine in a
year otherwise filled with hateful politicians and bigoted internet trolls and
while many people my age and older felt like they couldn't watch it because it
would just remind them of the teenage years that they never had it did act as a
spot of Hope for queer youth desperate for some good news this year and the good
news keeps coming with Yasmin Finney the actress who played Elle on the show
joining the cast of the new Doctor Who and Joe Locke Charlie joining the ever
expanding MCU with a yet unspecified role in The One Division follow-up Agatha
coven of chaos and with season two of Heart Stopper coming to Netflix this
summer we won't be wanting for non-depressing queer content for a while it's
about time everything everywhere all at once probably the greatest theater going
experience I've had in a long time everything everywhere is such a unique
cinematic experience that it continues to put to shame every iteration of this
new wave of Multiverse movies this movie of course hinges on the trans-pacific
PowerHouse Michelle yo to offer some emotional realness to a film that supports
reality itself Evelyn Quan Wang is an overworked overstressed and overwhelmed
mother wife daughter and small business owner under a barrage of tax audits for
her strange spending habits her unquiet mind fills with regret for each decision
that she has made leading her to this point she does not see her life but sees a
hundred other lives she could have lived if only she had made different choices
she is so disillusioned with her own life that she struggles to connect with
anyone in it her lesbian daughter longs to be taken seriously into no longer
have to live up to her mother's expectations Evelyn's husband has grown so
distant that he wants to consider divorce and netherland's business is in
shambles unlike the range of flashpoints and Multiverse of madnesses roaming the
hulls of California studios everything everywhere was not meant to merely be a
Multiverse movie but meant to be a representation of what it feels to not only
watch your life pass you by but all the other lives that you could be living
something that struck a chord in this late stage covered world with so many
people wondering what the heck am I doing with my life how can you value your
own life when you don't even know whether this is the life you should or want to
live in how do you keep track of all these fantasies and decisions you didn't
make and what can you do to enjoy the opportunities that you have in this life
when you do nothing but wonder about the opportunities you did not take and yes
the movie is quite queer with Evelyn's daughter Joy being the force that is
going to consume the Multiverse the rift between joy and her mother grows so
large that Joyce spirals into self-destruction figuratively and or literally
Evelyn at first is comfortable with Joy's queerness in fact at one point she
expresses her belief that someone convinced joy to be a lesbian though later in
the film Evelyn is exposed to other versions of herself who are lesbians and
sees other iterations of herself who are different variations of queer how can
you be uncomfortable with someone else's queerness when you realize that in
another world you could have been also queer how can you hate anyone for
anything they are when the world affords you an infinite range of opportunities
and experiences why should you disapprove of anyone when you are who you are
because of a collection of circumstances and choices culminating in your very
personhood everything everywhere stands out among Multiverse movies for this
reason using multiple realities to ask and provide guidance on these big
questions but also because it actually let itself go into the Absurd when every
other movie just uses alternate realities as an excuse to break out the all
green screen and underpace some digital effects artists everything ever at once
invites you to Revel in the absurdity of reality and maybe that a little bit of
absurdity is good for an overworked overwhelmed soul Interview with the Vampire
Interview with the Vampire based on the novel of the same name by the iconic
novelist Anne Rice who passed away this past year just a few days before my own
mom was phenomenal the vampire Chronicles on which interview is based are
notoriously queer in and of themselves with a cast of almost exclusively
bisexual characters with a few gender non-conforming characters thrown in as
well such as lestat's mother Gabrielle the pre-production of this show was
scrutinized and criticized from the jump even from me fans were very worried
about the show changing the race of two of the main characters Louis and Claudia
and changing the time period of the story from the Antebellum South to the early
20th century but in my opinion they pulled it off and then some by changing
Louis from the owner of a plantation to the owner of multiple brothels he's
still using people to make his money and Jacob Anderson best known for his role
of gray worm in Game of Thrones absolutely knocks it out of the park playing
Louie Louie is kind of a whiny [ __ ] in the books sorry Louis stands but he's
so much more complex and engaging in the show and Bailey bass is Claudia an aged
up version compared to the five-year-old in the book and the 10 year old in the
movie is a 14 year old force of absolute Terror and Charisma making a star at a
Bailey bass almost as soon as she enters the cast but post-release the most
controversy grew out of two aspects of the show one just how gay it was somehow
people had managed to read the vampire Chronicles and not pick up on all of the
vampires being Queer as hell and they were very angry that there were men
kissing each other on their TV screens but actual fans were looking forward to
the queerness and were certainly not disappointed but the second controversy
actually grew out of the the existing fan base for the books that being that the
absolute toxic abusive and downright evil depiction of the series star Lestat de
Leon Cole played here to gaslighting Perfection by Sam Reed while Lestat was
certainly emotionally abusive and manipulative in the original book as well as
the film adaptation he never reached the level of violent toxicity that he did
in the show beating Louis to within an inch of his vampiric life on one occasion
personally I think this is brilliant because it's playing with the unreliable
narrator Trope that we know was employed retroactively to Louis Story Once
Lestat became the main POV character for the book series in the books it's well
known that Louis made Lestat out to be a much worse person than he actually was
which is what I think is happening here especially with the very powerful
influence of a very powerful vampire no spoilers who happens to hate lestock
because of an interaction they had a few hundred years ago it makes perfect
sense for Louis to describe Lestat as being the Devil Himself and it will be
deliciously juicy when Lestat gets to tell his side of the story the series
currently has a 99 nine percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes and was listed as one
of the best new shows of the Year by multiple media Outlets after the release
while the ratings were soft for its traditional television release with about a
million viewers per episode its digital releases on AMC plus each episode coming
out one week before they aired on traditional cable represented the top rated
launch for a new series ever on the service so we'll be seeing a lot more of
Anne Rice's creatures of the night in years to come what we do in the shadows
vampires are gay it's just a thing sorry no it's not woke garbage it's always
been a thing to the point of Street vampires being errantly homophobic there I
said it sexy monsters for straight people is Peak queer appropriation when we
had nothing we invented the sexy monster when all of Street Media was about
Gallant Heroes rescuing the princess from the monster gay people who had been
decried as society's monsters turned around and said well if this is monster
[ __ ] it's actually kind of hot not just gay people but any kind of unashamed
sexual deviance including asexuals really because Society was so anal retentive
about purity that when you did have sex they were gonna be weird about whether
you enjoyed it or not hegemony is so weird which is why when you get a horny
vampire Convent they end up feeling just like family this layer of Staten Island
vampires was already very established to be sexually fluid in their first three
seasons specifically through the character of Laszlo cravensworth who was
proudly omnisexual from the very first up episode yet in spite of Disney's
acquisition of fox and their IPs the show winners and improv heavy cast decided
to couldn't double down on just how gay it was going to get for this fourth
season and not only were there more explicit discussions of queerness and very
explicit often coming from that very signature line delivery and nandor's
confusion over why he needs to explain that he had boy wives but the season
itself has commentary about queerness Believe It or Not mark my words what we do
in the shadows will be discovered as an Untold Brilliance of social commentary
one day using the idea of immortal vampires to criticize our societal
misconceptions about history our contemporary Society but also demonstrating
what kind of people we become when we don't have to really be worried about
eating or dying consider just how much of our existence revolves around being
alive and how much anxiety do you experience from knowing that you're not going
to be young forever all those times you say well maybe next year and how many
hobbies and interests you're putting off just because you need to pay for food
and shelter what if you didn't have to worry about either of those things what
if you could just do all the things you wanted to do with no social expectations
no timeline no need for resources what reason would you have to make a bucket
list in the first place just do the thing and these vampires kind of looked down
on people who have these Hang-Ups they're doing fine outside the confines arms
and they don't understand why people are so married to them in a brilliant
moment of meta commentary about queer characters coming out in media Guillermo a
human and former slave slash servant comes out to his family trying to get an
emotional moment to celebrate the courage he had to muster to do this the Empire
Queen Naja doesn't feel inclined to give him the credit I mean who isn't gay a
lot of people oh okay I'll get the trumpets out sorry queerness and the often
absurd pursuit of personal desires are her world she doesn't feel that coming
out needs to be celebrated because she doesn't understand why anyone in this
environment would ever need to be in the closet in the first place she and her
vampire Bros are so detached from social expectations she understands that
sexuality gender fashion and etiquette really have no impact on who a person
really is coming out is unremarkable because any kind of social hangup is a
matter of preference and therefore unremarkable which can be a good good thing
and can also be a bad thing after centuries of disconnecting from the world you
kind of lose your ability to exist in it so maybe some tethers of polite Society
are necessary in this strange little television show about vampires who are
completely separated from reality there's this running commentary about
privilege the real privilege isn't wealth but what wealth or immortality can
afford the ability to do the things that you want and not worry about the things
that you need Chucky Chucky is one of my favorite shows of all time it's at once
scary campy funny and touching season one which came out last year introduced us
to Jake and Devin a gay teenage horror power couple fighting to survive against
the titular serial killing doll the first season ended with a giant bloodbath
leaving our pair of final boys in the Foster system but after Chucky comes back
into their lives and blows everything up literally they along with their friend
Lexi are sent to a reform school run by the Catholic Church where we get
fabulous callbacks to horror icons like the Exorcist and The Omen throughout as
well as some original religious horror iconography since Chucky likes to kill in
style Jake and Devin's relationship is strained though when one of a seemingly
endless parade of Chucky dolls convinces Jake that he's actually good after A
Clockwork Orange style deprogramming adding emotional tension to a story already
piling up with dead bodies and elsewhere in the show we get to see Camp Queen
Jennifer Tilly give the performance of a lifetime as Tiffany Valentine Chucky's
serial killing ex who once inhabited the body of a doll but now inhabits the
body of oscar-nominated actress Jennifer Tilly we even get a standalone episode
with Tilly at the center of a bloody dinner party murder mystery clue style and
elsewhere in the show we get Glenn and Glenda the non-binary children of Chucky
and Tiffany who were once one split personality inhabiting a doll but are now
two people both played by non-binary actor Lachlan Watson best known for playing
Theo on the chilling Adventures of Sabrina their dynamic as basically the good
twin and the evil twin plays out throughout the season sometimes wanting to kill
their dad sometimes trying to kill their mom but always being there for each
other an absolutely Bonkers Christmas episode closes out the season with more
blood thrown around on screen since a bad night at the house of blue leaves the
second season of the show managed to introduce multiple new characters that I
really cared about and further developed Jake and Devin's relationship past just
a cute teenage crush and into this kind of love that can only happen once you've
been through a war together Don Mancini who's been the Evil Genius behind Chucky
from the very beginning except that horrible 2019 remake which I will never
forgive brings so much campy fun and real heart to this slasher TV series that
it's one of the very few shows I'm willing to watch week to week I usually only
binge watch shows once they're finished now but Chucky had me rushing to my TV
ever every week to follow the over-the-top Adventures of Jake and Devin Glenn
and Glenda Tiffany and Chucky Lexi and Nadine and Nina a paraplegic woman
possessed by Chucky and held captive by Tiffany who's kind of in love with her
she's played by Fiona Dora the daughter of Chucky's voice actor Brad Dourif and
she Nails it she even plays a young version of her father in flashbacks and it's
uncanny this show is so weird between killer dolls crazy psychiatrists further
developing characters set up all the way back in 1988 and Devin saw while
playing no less than three different characters it might be one of the oddest
shows on cable and I love every minute of it it's like Heart Stopper for slasher
fans in other words the perfect show for me our flag means death nobody really
expected this quirky to come about Pirates to be as gay as it was I mean for us
in the know we know that pirates were pretty gay and the fact that taekwatiti
was attached to the series both as a contributor and co-lead this definitely
signaled that it would at least appeal to our queer sensibilities but it was
surprising to us pleasantly that there was first such a stark depiction of
non-binary identity and then an actual gay romance subplot between two secondary
characters however and maybe this is because we're just so used to being baited
even that didn't prepare us for the decoding of the romance between Steve Bonnet
and Blackbeard as a matter of fact the iconic kiss between these incarcerated
Pirates was improvised by taikwa TV reez Darby was of course in on the subtlety
the script even without the kiss was designed to bring them into romantic
territory probably smartly the actors realized that garnishing a true fan base
for the show especially among its queer viewers would require more than crumbs
even if the provided crumbs had been substantial the show takes a defamiliarized
approach first of all to depicting piracy that said our modern conceptions about
piracy are often flawed hardly the bloodthirsty yet loyal crew of visually
smelly men that you may be familiar with from the Pirates films when in fact
piracy was born out of an ideological resistance to British and or Spanish
colonial rule and though the framing of the show is absurd the fact of the
matter is that this is indeed based on real people and real events and probably
broaching a lot closer to reality than you may realize just don't Wikipedia
these people and learn what actually happened to them in real life our flag
means death however is a significant stride forward in queer media in general
hardly about queerness in any specific way nobody really needs to justify their
sexuality or gender in spite of having discussions about it this is a good story
which is told about queer people who don't like queer people won't tune in but
people who just want a good story will keep watching and feed them to the demand
for the upcoming second season hopefully the outrageous success of this series
will shed a light on how queer stories can be told to Executives and other
creators alike American Horror Story okay spoilers for this one American Horror
Story has been hit and miss for most of its run while some Seasons like Asylum
are Rock Solid from start to finish some waiver halfway through like the
admittedly iconic coven and others fall flat on their face like double feature I
was beginning to wonder how many ghosts witches serial killers aliens vampires
and even the Devil Himself the show could keep churning out so in the latest
season simply subtitled New York City started being advertised with the most
vague commercials of any season yet which is saying something I didn't know what
to expect and then the show started airing and we were introduced to two forces
of evil killing gay men in 1980s New York a serial killer and a seemingly
Supernatural sex Spirit the usual craziness in Camp of other Seasons didn't
materialize this time around with the real focus on the show being the way gay
men are ignored by society and how they gauge their own worth based on
attractiveness and sex appeal and not much else I was intrigued by the mystery
and motives surrounding the main serial killer and confused by the inclusion of
the supernatural elements that seemed all sorts of out of place it felt like no
other season of the show before it focusing heavily on realistic characters with
an almost entirely queer cast playing an almost entirely queer cast of
characters I kept waiting for sex demons from the sewer to pop up or something
when the main serial killer is taken out with three episodes left to go in the
season I was worried we'd have another season on our hands where everything just
falls apart in the Final Act but then it didn't because the characters who had
been showing odd but not that troubling ailments throughout the season seeing
the sex Spirit even being assaulted by him are finally confronted with the truth
the Real Horror AIDS had arrived in New York City and the faceless demon we've
been confused by all season is actually an allegorical stand-in for the then
unknown virus secretly ravaging the gay community without being acknowledged
without the Flash and Pizzazz of a serial killer it was ignored and even ignored
by we the audience of the show it was just a weird thing on the periphery until
it wasn't until there was no ignoring the Grim Reaper hovering around our cast
of characters in the final two-part episode of the Season almost everyone in our
cast dies all but one gay character and we're shown the horrifying results of
AIDS infections before the days of protease Inhibitors we see the slow painful
death of our caste far worse than the relatively quick deaths brought on by a
serial killer we even see several straight female characters one had been
married to a gay character before he came out and another for whom a gay
character had been a sperm donor and they fall victim to the disease as well
showing the audience that no one was safe from this vicious virus that the
leather-clad Grim Reaper doesn't care if you're gay or straight in a
surprisingly powerful and Abstract moment we see the countless gay men piling
into an open grave one after another this Force takes them away never to be seen
again but within memories American Horror Story New York City the 11th season of
this long-running horror Anthology was not at all what I was expecting and for
the first time in the series left me feeling actually horrified by the abstract
realism in the final moments of the show it might just be the final season of
the show and what a way to go out forcing the audience to witness a killer that
felt very Supernatural in the early days of the epidemic cold heartless without
motive and with authorities unable or unwilling to stop it so as I said this
year had a surprising amount of really good and sometimes great queer content
and we didn't even talk about shows like A League of Their Own which I haven't
gotten a chance to watch yet or foreign series like young Royals and semantic
error or the animated shows like the return of the owl house or the ongoing
Brilliance of dead end paranormal park or the overtly queer and delightfully
offensive hell of a boss but don't worry the holidays are coming and we're
getting ready to go to hell [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music]