---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/cmde5ylg6-w"

date: 2021-08-31
title: Disney's Gay Cultural Appropriation # ｜ James Somerton
runtime: 36:00
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "No Gays At Disney"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20210831+cMde5YLG6-w+Disney's+Gay+Cultural+Appropriation+%EF%BD%9C+James+Somerton.webm"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup/James+Somerton/James+Somerton+-+Disney's+Gay+Cultural+Appropriation+_+James+Somerton.mp4"
# description: "a video essay on...?"

history:
  2021-08-31: First published.
  2023-12-07: Privated post-callout.

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">
<details {% include description-version for="2021-08-31" %}>

Disney has always had a problem with LGBT representation… but in the summer of 2021 they took it to a new level.

#Disney #Luca #Raya

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="06:20" for="Falcon and the Winter Soldier" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="15:40" for="Loki" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="23:00" for="Raya and the Last Dragon" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="25:48" for="Luca" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="29:50" for="Real Talk" %}  

</details>
</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

Whenever I think I’ve dropped the mic on

Disney, something like the summer of 2021 happens. Where do we start? With the
gay fishboys who are definately not

gay? The bisexual Loki who avoids all same-gender

companionship like the plague? Or the genderfluid Loki who is only ever referred

to as a man? Raya, and her life-long frenemie, though they

might have come a little bit earlier in the summer, in late spring, they were
both swathed in a consistent lesbian mood? The close. Friendship. Between Sam
and Bucky? Or just… this shot of Prada Bucky alone? But you know, we can’t talk
about Falcon

and the Winter Soldier being gay because Anthony Mackey, who plays the titular
Falcon, and

then the second iteration of Captain America, said in an interview himself that
the characters

are not gay. “So many things are twisted and convoluted. There’s so many things
that people latch

on to with their own devices to make themselves relevant and rational. The idea
of two guys being friends and loving

each other in 2021 is a problem because of the exploitation of homosexuality. It
used to be guys can be friends, we can

hang out, and it was cool. You would always meet your friends at the

bar, you know. You can’t do that anymore, because something

as pure and beautiful as homosexuality has been exploited by people who are
trying to

rationalize themselves. So something that’s always been very important

to me is showing a sensitive masculine figure. There’s nothing more masculine
than being

a superhero and flying around and beating people up. But there’s nothing more
sensitive than

having emotional conversations and a kindred spirit friendship with someone that
you care

about and love.” Imagine that. Something as beautiful as homosexuals being

exploited by… Homosexuals. Okay I’m not really sure what he thinks

is going on here. Is he just under the impression that there’s this horde of
straight people who are clamoring for gays on-screen? I mean… there are. It’s
called shipping and it’s valid. (Please ship responsibly.) But a majority of the
people reading into

the relationship between Sam and Bucky were gay people. And regardless of
whether you’re gay or

straight, if you’re shipping characters it’s probably because you feel a little

starved for seeing actual on-screen representation. Or because you recognize
natural romantic

chemistry between two characters that you’re not quite sure how the creators
missed. Either way this seems like a weird place to set up my soap box and
address a topic that apparently nobody thought was much of an issue. And if
Mackey wanted to speak to something

that actually is an issue, he could have acknowledged the fact that Marvel
films, in spite of evergreen

popularity and being the most expansive franchise in history, does not see fit
to include something

as… beautiful as homosexuality in their movies. Mackey could have also
acknowledged that yes, he did in fact, see the sheer amount of gay-baiting in
FatWS. Intentional or not. But then I thought… Maybe it’s me. Maybe I’m the
problem. Maybe it isn’t that obvious… Like yes I know I get flamed for reading
queerness into things (even when it’s entirely appropriate). But come on… Sam
and Bucky is kind of obvious, right? So no, I’m not the problem. Are the
producers really that oblivious? They must have seen it when they watched it.
Because it’s hard to watch some parts and

take a straight reading away from it. Nevermind that if either of them was a
woman, they would go out of their way to point out the romantic tension. We see
that. Queer-people, that is. We see the tension. We see the looks, the touching,
the closeness,

the rivals-to-lovers trope playing out in full force. I mean, how can a straight
person look at

some of these plot elements, character beats, and coded language and say: “Oh
yeah. Bucky going into a complete tailspin over

the loss of his perfectly platonic friend to whom he had become emotionally
dependent

upon in order to navigate shared trauma was absolutely a straight mood.” My
first question was: is there a point of

queer baiting where gays are sensitive enough to pick up on the coded language,
but straights

can’t see it? Is gaydar actually a thing? The answer to that apparently is:
‘yeah

probably.’ And if there is such a sweet spot, Disney

is getting very adept at hitting it. In a way where moreso than any other
American

studio, they love to plant their queer representation in that sweet spot of the
gays weeping at

their feet in gratitide for shreds of acknowledgement, while the straights are,
largely, too oblivious

to notice. Which is a whole issue on it’s own. Whereas other studios and
networks seem to

either avoid gay topics altogether, or they dive right in like Netflix. The only
other major form of media which seems to like playing in this kind of
representation titillation game is anime. Which I will get to. But my follow up
to that question about the

oversenstive queer rep-detection was: ‘When we flock to twitter to talk about
how this

coded media represents us… why are straight people so willing to sitck up their
noses and tell us that we’re obviously mistaken.’ Representation gaslighting? We
literally lived these experiences. Why are we being told that we’re mistaken
when we acknowledge our own lived experiences being depicted either literally,
or allegorically. No wonder the gays all have anxiety disorders. Look at all the
overanalyzing we’re forced

to do! Out of all the coded and baited content we’ve

been given over the years… have we reached a point where straight people also
have started

reading into it? And now we’re at a point where, somehow, the straights think
that these queer expiriences are actually part of the straight expirience? There
must be some kind of explanation for

this willful blindness. So going over the previously mentioned example. I’m
assuming this is something that’s

ubiquitous enough that everybody has some kind of opinion on it. A discussion of
the many ways in which Falcon

and the Winter Solider is stuffed full of coded queer messaging has been done to
death

by now. But it’s worth revisiting it to sort of…

confront the perspective that this is somehow straight. Falcon and the Winter
Soldier follows the

first adventure of Sam Wilson and James “Bucky” Barns following the
disappearance of Captain

America after the events of Endgame, Thanos’ invasion of Earth, and the
reappearance of

everybody who had been ‘snapped’ by Thanos. Sam and Bucky being among them.
Together, they have to combat a terrorist

group who is... Fighting to assure that everyone is treated

with dignity, fairness, and afforded the appropriate human rights. So the ‘bad
guys’ are a multinational

team headed by a mixed-race woman of colour who are fighting for the people who
didn’t

get snapped. See. Following the snap, or the blip, as it’s

called, half of the population disappeared. Urban centres became virtual ghost
towns and

rural areas became desolate. There was a mass migration from impoverished

or rural nations towards the urban centres of wealthy ones. After a five-year
span of everyone finally

starting to get a handle on things… Bam! Everyone comes back. Global
organizations began scrambling to organize

a smooth transition for ‘blipped’ people to return to their homes and lives, as
if

nothing had happened. Unfortunately, this meant forcing former migrants

out of the places that had become their homes. Leading to mass deportations and
an even more

significant refugee crisis. As organizers seemed to offer more resources

to people who had been blipped, the people who had been there all along are
forced into

refugee camps, shanty towns, and trapped in a cycle of bureaucratic
impoverishment. The ‘Flag Smashers’ are an organization

which arose to steal resources to help these people, and demand appropriate
action from

world powers who simply labeled them as terrorists. And they… were the bad guys?
Yeah it’s not a great look for a guy spangled

in the american flag to be fighting against the impoverished of the world who
are just

trying to organize and be heard by the global powers. Especially when one of the
last shots in the

show was a bunch of people of colour being murdered by a white guy with
absolutely no

repercussions. This doesn’t necessarily pertain to gay

themes. Except for the fact that the Flag Smashers

fight for people who are shoved around, pushed aside, and altogether are
forgotten and ignored

by their leaders. This is a very similar situation to how the

queer and gay communities have been treated by our governments for a SIGNIFICANT
portion

of history. But throughout this adventure is a running plot of Sam and Bucky…
not really liking each other for some reason. And it’s never really explained
why? So, when Mackey responds to the persistently

observed romantic chemistry between his own captain america and Bucky, he seems
very critical

of fans for engaging in his franchise in a way he doesn’t like. Especially when
he himself is dismissing these

observations as predatorial — somehow — while claiming to be protecting
something as beautiful

as homosexuality from people who want to see heroic homosexuals and homosexuals
themselves

on screen. While seemingly ignoring the substantial ways

in which he and Sebastian Stan were written and directed to be romantic. You’ve
got the rolling-in-the-grass scene which… is a staple of romantic action movies
for decades. A literal couples’ therapy session. There are the looks, the
touching, and all

the other normal rivals-to-lovers character beats. Bucky’s reference to his
dating life where

everyone had tiger pictures in their profile. Which… is a very vague reference
to a brief

trend on Tindr where guys would post pictures where they were petting tigers. So
you know which gender he’s looking up

on Tindr. Which, YES these are very specific, vague,

uses of film language that can be very easily passed-over. But for the last…
what? 100 years of cinema, this was the only way

that we were ever represented so we’re very used to reading into these cues. I’m
sorry that some writer thought it would

be funny to put it there. And it’s not like Mackey bears the sole

responsibility for the queer denial of obvious queer coding. Director Kari
Skogland spoke specifically

to the Tiger Pictures throwaway reference saying: ““I think we just thought of
it as an

oddity of the times, because he’s so confused by it,” I mean, I’m 32. And I’m
confused by the need to post a picture

of yourself with a tiger in a dating profile. Apparently straight guys are big
on posting

pictures of them with fish? Anyway that’s an incredibly specific reference,

relating to an incredibly specific social phenomenon just to get dismissed away
with

a shallow explanation like that. And because we’re gay, we read into these

things. Is this a secret covert gay coup that the

showrunners are planning? To subvbert Disney’s heterosexual agenda

by sneaking in gay stuff and then publicly denying it? Because this is so
obvious, there’s no way

that the writers just thoughtlessly threw in a line that's specifically tied to
a singular,

temporary event in recent history that neither really fits nor does it really
enrich the

story. Given the way Disney’s writer assembly line

churns out these scripts so meticulously, it seems weird that it would just be
there

for no reason. Then again this is the same show which has

Sam saving the day by giving a speech to a bunch of politicians which convinces
them

to pursue the best interests of the people. “Sure, Jan.” You’ve got a show about
a genetically-altered

super soldier, a World War 2 soldier who was brainwashed into being a Soviet
assassin,

and a pilot with wings becoming a symbol of American idealism. And somehow
politicians bending to the benefit

of the populace at large is the most unbelievable thing. I mean there’s a whole
discourse around

how fiction establishes fantasy worlds which exist under a certain set of rules,
but still require a certain element of social connectivity to our reality. But
that’s not this video. And honestly videos about literary theory like that are
probably not in the works. Unless you’d like to see that. If so, leave a comment
below. Engagement! So what concerns me most about the Sam and

Bucky ship-slash-non-ship is that it was so clear and obvious without being
explicitly

stated. So no, I don’t believe that the writers

were oblivious and no, I don’t believe they’re secretly trying to hustle some
sweet-sweet

gay superhero action into the show. Keep in mind the popularity of Stucky. It
was so prevalent, that one might hazard

a guess that the ongoing popularity of Chris Evans’ Captain America was owed to
the fan

fervour for the meta-fictitious romance with Stan’s Bucky. Also keep in mind
that romantic tension between

Steve and Bucky was never explicitly written or directed into the story.
Instead, it just naturally grew out of the

performances of these two actors. Contrast that against Falcon and the Winter

Soldier — where it was so brazen it almost hurt to watch. So my worry is that
these NEW gay references

with plausible dieniability came directly from the executives. As a way to
kinda… fan the flames for Stucky

and fast-track whatever ship name Sam and Bucky have. Sucky? Sacky? Sake? Bam???
The ongoing gay-baity rumours certainly helped

the show cycle around gay media, and earn a lot of shares and engagement on gay
social

media. Is this a very calculated move designed to

get some extra engagement for these characters by making it so oblivious to us,
the gays,

while even the actors and directors are prone to write it off as ‘just normal
straight

boys’? Us gays are pretty good at getting things

to trend on Twitter, after all. Sure, at first there’s the initial annoyance

of Gay-baiting. And then I just get a little… uncomfortable? That very clear gay
expiriences are being

lifted from gay stories (where they belong) and then thrown into a piece of
media that

everyone — okay a lot of people — come away with the belief that these are
perfectly

straight expiriences. Like. On one hand, yes, dismantling toxic masculinity
means making it acceptable for two straight men to be emotionally intimate with
each other. But on the other hand, there is a bi-or-homophobic

reading of that where a dude’s masculinity is tough enough to be emotional with
bros, but still fragile enough not to bite the bullet and just… You know?
Instead it just goes like: “HEY GUYS. IT’S OKAY. I’M NOT *ACTUALLY* GAY. I’M
JUST EMOTIONAL WITH MY BROS. I’M NOT GAY.” That statement, while seeming to
fight against

patriarchal values of masculinity, actually re-enforces an existing hierarchy
where straight is closer to masculinity than gay is. It’s like the woke-man’s
way to say no-homo. So. Why is Mr. Mackey, so quick to deffend homosexuality,

while at the same time doing everything he can to affirm Sam Wilson’s
heterosexuality? Instead of saying that art is in the eye of

the beholder, and that whether the character is straight or gay would not
detract from

his accomplishments and interpersonal relationships? The real kick in the
proverbial balls was

that these comments dropped in Pride month. And — unfortunately, Anthony
Mackey’s no-homo comments set a precedent for Disney all month long. Gonna be
upfront. I loved Loki. I would have actually got to love it a whole bunch more
if social media wasn’t swarmed with bi/pan Loki celebrations and debates. Oh god
this is gonna be a mess. I’m gonna get cancelled. But in the case of Loki… I’m
just not sure if it qualifies as representation. I realize the point about me
being an exclusively

gay man is that *I* don’t need to feel represented by Loki. But just in a matter
of tallying the sum of

the show’s part’s I’m not wholly sure how anyone could. In the words of Russell
T. Davies, the creator

of Queer As Folk, he said this about Loki: “Loki makes one reference to being
bisexual

once, and everyone’s like, ‘Oh my god, it’s like a pansexual show.’ It’s like
one word. He said the word ‘prince,’ and we’re

meant to go, ‘Thank you, Disney! Aren’t you marvelous?’ It’s pathetic.” This is
a queer creator who, in the 1990s and Early 2000s, ran a show about open and
explicitly gay, lesbian, and bisexual characters. And in this formula, Queer as
Folk was so

popular on Showtime that it’s runtime had to get extended by an extra 15 minutes
because

the network was selling more adspace than would fit in just an hour-long
timeslot. And if that aired in the early 2000s — entering into Bush-era america
— why does our bisexual Loki only get a one-line vaguary about princes? And no.
Nobody’s asking for Tom Hiddleston to have

a full-contact sex scene. Loki is neither the place for that, nor would

any marvel movie benefit from a sex scene. And sure. We can still have the
Loki-Sylvi love plot

but like… some more significant references to bisexuality would be more
appreciated. Film and television are visual mediums, and

if there is a component of your story that is not represented visually, then it
has failed

in a significant way. Also because, if necessary, that little ‘prince

and or princess’ exchange between Sylvie and Loki can be removed and it wouldn’t

change the story. According to rumours, when Mobius imprisons

Loki in a time loop, it was initially going to be Loki getting kneed in the
balls by a

jilted lover — a man. Which would have been a great way to call

attention to the bisexuality of his character, because it references a former
MLM trist without

obstructing the developing romance between Loki and Sylvie. For what it is. But
a problem with bisexual representation

is two things. First, that Bisexual characters are usually

depicted as villains. It’s a way to paint villains as being deviant,

by saying they’re excessively horny perverts who want men and women. An
additional problem with Loki verbally confirming

bisexuality is that Loki’s, in the MCU and the source material, are very well
known for

being liars. Especially while he’s in a situation where

he’s trying to manipulate Sylvie, there’s greater textual evidence to suggest
that he’s trying to relate to her by earning her trust. Can we really take that
as substantial evidence? But the second problem is that Bisexualiuty

has, in many instances in film and television, been used as a ‘cop-out’ for
self-congratulatory

queer representation. And then sitcking the bisexual character in

excsluvely heterosexual romances. Which is annoying, and maybe even a
contributing

factor to some of the animosity towards bisexual identity in queer circles. And
no, bisexuals don't owe anyone ‘proof’ of anything. Especially because identity
is internal. However fiction has different rules. All we can verify of a given
character is

what, we, the audience sees on screen. Any verbal references and assumptions can

be dismissed. There’s actually a rule in TV and film that

unless you see a character die — there is no proof that they are dead. And that
normally holds up.They can pop back

up at any time. So Loki can talk about his past all he wants,

but unless we have flashbacks or other indications — we, as an audience, can’t
truly accept

what is said. Which is… exactly what Disney wants. They want to say they have
diversity without

doing anything to commit to it. It’s one thing to be struggling to force

our own presence into media, but now we’re just asking to be represented in
media that

is controlled by straight people. Which means our representation is essentially

‘gifted’ to us, and that we ought to be grateful no matter how it comes out.
Which inevitably sets a precedence for straight

creators deciding what is and is not acceptable queer representation. Which is
limited to what they’re comfortable

depicting, and to experiences they are aware of. You’d think Loki wouldn’t have
this problem

given that the head showrunner was, herself, bisexual. However, her willingness
to depict honest

bisexual expiriences were prevented by executives and producers. So her creative
vision was limited by what the producers were comfortable with. And their
agendas remain ambiguous, Suffice to say. After all the effort to slip that one
line

of bisexuality into the show, guess who didnt get invited back for the second
season of

Loki? … ...Her. Everyone else is coming back. Not her. But forget about even
bisexuality, because

apparently the straights can’t wrap their head around that for some reason —
Loki tried to go a step further and serve some nonbinary representation as well.
And… well… It was an attempt. In the first episode of the show, we see an

identification card that depicts Loki’s ‘sex’ as ‘fluid.’ To a lot of the
uninformed, this is great

nonbinary representation. To the young queers who still have a twinkle

of optimism in their eye, this is a great first step. To those of us who have
nonbinary friends

who are old enough to become cynical about it. This is annoying. I feel like
they wanted to drop in a queer nod, but didn’t really feel it was important to
switch up their gritty, 70s bureau aesthetic. Or that the ‘fluidity’ was
referencing

Loki’s shapeshifting abilities which… I’m not sure if he’s even shape-shifted

into a woman in the MCU. But either way, Loki’s abilities in the films are
focused around creating illusions which distract from the reality. Not actually
changing his chromosomes. He does in the comics! But not in the movies. Also
damning is how, in spite of the TVA’s

‘wokeness’ around including ‘fluid’ on the intake form, literally everyone in

the show’s early episodes makes an explicit point of referring to Loki as a man.
Again, which is reprised when Hiddletson’s

Loki asks the other Lokis if they’ve ever met a woman loki to which they shudder
and

say ‘no.’ Sexism lite, okay… But if Loki is ‘sex-fluid’ why would a

qualification about man and woman even matter? The inability of the showrunners
to distinguish a difference between sex and gender is not a trait that they want
to share with TERFs. And this is, I think we will find going forward,

a problem that will become more and more prevalent in media. Because it seems to
me that media in which we are explicitly represented is the least likely to
contain any kind of queer expiriences. Other than maybe coming out. And yet, we
find a myriad of our experiences

in stories where we are not explicitly represented. Which then annoys us to no
end because we

have to submit a formal research thesis when we try and convince people that
these are,

in fact, our experiences. Which… this has happened a lot this year

at Disney… There wasn’t really any early indication

that Raya and the Last Dragon was going to be gay but. Here we are. When the
movie hit Disney+, there was A swarm

of lesbians fans who picked up on all the innuendos that were too subtle for
most of

the straights to see. Whereas my discussion for Falcon and the Winter

Solider was focused around how gay-coded expiriences are being co-opted into
normative masculinity,

and how Loki was about the erasure of bisexuality and nonbinary expiriences in
lieu of vague

self-identification which does not necessarily match the characters’ portrayal,
Raya speaks

to a phenomenon that has already happened. Gal pals. On a first watch of Raya, I
saw some cute

chemistry between Raya and the antagonist, Namaari. I thought, sure it’s there
if you want to

see it but it could just be an instance of girls being friends. And then I
listened to exactly what had just

come out of my mouth. Because in spite of the aggressive gay flirting

in Raya and the Last dragon (not to mention the pet name which roughly
translates to ‘Strangely Beutiful’) I had been conditioned by society to just
write it off as just girl things. The permissibility of girls to be emotional,

and thus, emotionally and physically close with each other has made it difficult
for

lesbians to exist in visible ways. Not that girls shouldn’t be emotional, but

there must be some lingering homophobia around to look at two girls holding
hands and say:

“BFFs” before girlfriends. We really ought to look at lesbian erasure

and get concerned for the future of queer representation. That one day, maybe
one day soon, our stories

and expressions are going to be swallowed into an amoebous heap of “HEY IT’S
ACTUALLY

STRAIGHT AFTER ALL” media. Where the identities that queer people have

struggled and endured to live and validate will be depicted through straight
characters

who have not had any suffering associated with their straightness. Not that Raya
herself had many elements of

her story as being coded queer. Her suffering is more related to a literal

apocalypse than alienation, social ridicule, or willful parental abandonment.
But the ways in which she expresses a very tumultuous physical attraction to a
rival really should not require a heterosexual explination. And yet when people
try to argue in favour

Raya’s gay leanings, they are met with corrections specifying that these are, in
fact, straight

things. And that lesbians are just reading too much

into it. And even though the voice of Raya, Kelly Marie

Tran, confirmed in interviews that her portrayal of Raya was intendedly gay,
there is still

a persistent wall of denial. Well. If Raya was too subtle, Disney was going to
double-down on squashing rumours of gays in their studio. In Pride month, of all
times. Pixar’s Luca was set to come out in– Well, he wasn’t going to come out,
but the

movie WAS gonna get released in June of 2021. And from the first trailer, the
word on gay

Twitter was “Calamari by Your Name”. Actually, it was all of Twitter. Film
YouTube was abuz about how Disney had

finally made a gay animated movie. Straight guys were excited to see Disney’s

version of Call me By Your Name meets The Shape of Water. By the time the movie
hit Disney+, I was half-convinced

they were actually gonna do it. But no. They’re just. Very good friends. Just a…
question for all the affirmed straight

men watching this right now, all two of you. Is it gay to— Okay. So the movie
was unabashedly blunt in its

depiction of literally every gay man’s gay expirience growing up gay. And yet,
director, Enrico Casarosa, was absolutely

ardent in his denial that the film was gay in anyway. Thanks Mickey! Yeah
they’re gonna slap our community-generated

flags on Mickey Mouse ears and sell our identity back to us at a mark-up sure.
But they’re also going to — ONCE AGAIN

— make it very clear that there are no gay characters in Disney Movies. And when
there ARE gay characters… are they REALLY? Thank god for the Eternals… Unless
they kill the husband. Please don’t kill the husband. But Luca is… of course, an
instance of a

very clear-as-day gay expirience whose literal climatic sequence was about
showing your true

colours— That once again meets a wall of straight people

who say: “Yes. This is an absolutely heterosexual thing to

exprience. Yes. Getting disowned. Having your family threaten to send you away
because you’re ‘curious.’ Found family of misfits. Et cetera. Et cetera.”
Apparently that’s all straight now. “Some people… they'll never accept him. But
some will. And he seems to know how to find the good

ones.” Certainly not the first time Disney made an

animated movie about fish people with heavy gay undertones. I don’t even
understand why this is a debate

— Hans Christen Anderson invented ‘fish people as a literary genre’ and he
himself

was quoted saying: “Yeah. Fish are pretty gay.” Actually with Luca there wasn’t
as much

of that as I was worried about. The director notwithstanding. And Disney
actually got their voice actors

to shut up about gay readings this time. Until Jack Dylan Grazer, voice of
Alberto,

came out as bisexual soon after its release. Glub-glub hun-ty. But still. A lot
of straight people I saw even heaped

on the pile of gay fish boys. ...I’m... sure there was a better way to

phrase that but I’m not sure that I should… Anyway, the coding in Luca was so
obvious

that even straight people looked at it and said yep they pretty gay.’ In fact,
recently director Enrico Casarosa

gave comments where he admitted how there could be a gay reading of his film.
You know… because apparently he finally

decided to watch it. But even among straight people who agreed

that the fish boys were pretty gay, they gave Disney a pass because ‘they were
just kids’

and apparently kids aren’t allowed to be gay. Which… I have more than a few
words to say about

that. But as Disney is a media producer that specifically

develops media for children, isn’t that always going to be the defence? That
having gays in their media is too mature

for children. Which I’d like to ask what these straight

people think needs to be depicted in order for it to be gay. Because that is,
and continues to be the rallying

cry for Disney’s systemic removal of queer content which neither codes nor
brushes off

these identities. Casualties of this include Love, Victor being

shafted to Hulu, and The Owl House having its final season cut short once it
moved to

Disney+. There, I mentioned Owl House. Are You happy now? It’s not just the fact
that I’m annoyed

at the ongoing queer coding. Because I am annoyed, and I’m very willing

to continue making videos about how annoyed I am. But it’s particularly annoying
here because

we’re seeing in real time our identities being removed from our range of
experiences. And then an errant denial that these were

ever our experiences to begin with. And it’s this denial that Disney is
fostering. That the stories that queer creators have been waitng generations to
depict in their unabridged forms, are actually straight stories. And that they
have been all along. And if these stories are straight stories, than what’s the
point in having queer people tell these stories? Or be depicted in these
stories? Instead, the role of queer characters is simply

to self-declare and move on to the next scene. If we’re in it at all. We’re not
going to reach public acceptance if we allow the people who don’t want us around
to dictate the terms of our existence. WE’RE HERE. WE’RE QUEER. (Except if we’re
causing a fuss, we don’t

want to upset anyone.) Because committing to visual depictions of

homosexuality or bisexuality — just a lil’ smootch, or even holding hands, or
some romantic

dialogue — would be confronting a group of people who ‘just don’t think
homosexual

content should be directed at children.’ Nevermind that out of anyone, it is
queer

children who need this media the most. Queer children are coming into a world
where

they may not have real-life role models or family who are like them. Feeling
that alone and isolated is a huge

contributing factor for anxiety and depression among queer youth, and adults
too. Having media to supplement what is missing

in real life is the best way for people to see shared experiences. But those
messages aren’t going to come

across the way they need to if these experiences are removed from identifiable
queer characters,

and then appropreated into media depicting straight people. And when it comes to
separating our identities

from our experiences, that isn’t even the only problem. Namely, that people are
more likely to take

fiction as reality. And by trusting fiction, and what the creators say about
their fiction, we are letting that mould and shape our cultural idea of reality.
And if queer people are not in that reality

that’s bad. If media establishes expectations about queerness

that are not true, that’s going to be bad for queer people who are trying to
figure

out how to fit into the world. And it’s bad for straight and cis people

who are trying to relate to us, and becoming frustrated that we aren’t like how
we are

in the media they watch. Somehow, we went from fighting to tell our stories, to
setting up media producers as the gatekeepers of what is or is not a valid. And
I can’t quite say why we are so complicit. But somehow, Disney especially,
established itself as the cultural touchstone of identity. Disney doesn’t decide
what matters. We do. And yet there’s this precedence that when

Disney makes a movie about you — you’ve made it. Once you get your Black
Panther, or your Moana,

or your Raya, Mulan, your Coco… you’ve been accepted into the Disney dictated
world of legitimacy. It makes people feel seen. It makes people feel included.
Especially for kids. But gay kids don’t get that. There’s no gay superhero or
Disney princess

or prince for them to look to. And you might say, there’s a historical

figure for them to look up to. Sure. But media matter. And as far as media,
especially Disney, gay

kids don’t exist. So maybe we should explain that, actually,

do they.