---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/j1qhuu9ij-s"

date: 2022-08-26
title: Ranking "The Best" Gay Movies Of All Time
runtime: 58:37
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-public-records/Ranking+The+Best+Gay+Movies+Of+All+Time.mp4"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20220826+J1Qhuu9iJ-s+Ranking+%EF%BC%82The+Best%EF%BC%82+Gay+Movies+Of+All+Time.webm"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup/James+Somerton/James+Somerton+-+Ranking+_The+Best_+Gay+Movies+Of+All+Time.mp4"
# description: "a video essay on...?"

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">

I went through a bunch of lists of “the best” LGBTQ movies and decided to put them in their place.

[patreon link]

00:00 Intro and Channel Update  
03:12 1-10  
13:09 11-20  
20:21 21-30  
31:21 31-40  
42:19 41-52  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

hello everyone and welcome to my tier ranking of the uh it was gonna be 50 but i
added two more so 52 best with big ass quotes lgbtq movies ever made i created
this list by going through about 16 or 17 best queer movies ever made lists
finding the movies i've actually seen and putting them all together and coming
up with a tier list slay which is they are like amazing movies must watch fierce
fantastic movies fine which is kind of they're good i like them they're not for
everybody flop i don't like them honestly homophobic these aren't necessarily
actually homophobic movies they are more so i really don't like the movies
people have asked me for this kind of thing a lot kind of recommendations for
queer movies so i figured this would be a fun way to do it instead of me just
you know putting out a list on twitter actually make a movie make a movie about
it i'm going to make movies but not right now actually make a video about it so
i can monetize it because youtube likes to demonetize everything i make so if
it's just me sitting in a chair i don't i don't think they can demonetize this
they'll probably find a way to do monetize this but i won't let them because i
won't say any dirty words because i'm good and innocent like that but before we
actually get to the list uh if you just want to skip ahead to the list skip
ahead to chapter two but anyway i just drank a lot of coffee little channel life
update there's a couple of new videos coming out for september so be excited for
that or dread them because one of them is talking about attack on titan so
depending upon your opinion on that also in september i am moving to toronto so
there's going to be a little bit of a gap between when we can make the next
video so we're going to try and get some kind of in the can and ready to go out
before the move nick and i are both moving to toronto very excited about that
we're moving because as you know from the past we raised a bunch of money for
telos pictures to make some queer inclusive movies not queer inclusive queer
movies and where we live now there are no actors and so we're moving to where
there are actors and we've already got people applying so that's awesome and if
you like the stuff that i do i would really appreciate it if you could sign up
for my patreon youtube consistently demonetizes my videos they've stopped rating
them 18 plus which is nice but they consistently demonetize the videos so the
only reason that nick and i are still able to do this is because of patreon and
we've got some really cool like bonus features patreon exclusive podcast and all
sorts of cool stuff like that behind the scenes exclusive videos there's lots
over there so we would really appreciate it if you have the ability to sign up
for patreon that would be amazing uh if you don't want to give your information
out to patreon you can also sign up as a youtube member and get the same
benefits as the patrons if you can't sign up for patreon or the youtube
membership that's totally fine i know not everyone is in the position to be able
to do that so you know just liking and sharing and subscribing to the channel is
a huge huge help that's the housekeeping done now let's move on to the tier list
the first movie we're going to talk about is beautiful thing which is a british
movie that came out in the early 2000s i believe uh about two boys kind of
growing up in not the best area of england and kind of finding each other and
you know falling in love and it's cute and stuff it's it's not my favorite movie
because it's very low key but it's something that it's a gay movie that isn't
stressful it's not incredibly stressful to watch which is a nice change of pace
so i'm going to rate it as fine some people are going to hate me for only
putting it in fine but like i said that's for the movies that are good but maybe
not for everyone maybe everyone doesn't want the sort of low-key thing so that's
where that goes more controversy because the birdcage is going in sleigh and let
me explain my reasoning for that i know a lot of people think the birdcage is
very homophobic i disagree the birdcage is if you haven't seen it the birdcage
is about two older gay men who have a son together and their son is marrying
this lovely girl whose father happens to be an extremely conservative anti-gay
politician drama ensues dragon sues it's funny it's hilarious nathan lane is
perfection robin williams just kind of cements his ally status he was the whole
reason the movie got made it's based on the french movie and play la caja fall
which is also very good but i do prefer the bird cage partially because i
absolutely adore robin williams may he rest in peace next up is bohemian
rhapsody i'm torn uh i wanna say it's honestly homophobic but remy malek's
performance is so good i'm gonna put it in flop remy malik's performance is
really good and of course you know you can watch it just for the queen music but
the kind of backstory of the movie being made is very much the band queen trying
to remove as much gayness from the movie as possible if you know anything about
the queer icon that is freddie mercury you know that removing his queerness is
kind of hard but they did their best yeah it just i i'm not a huge fan of it the
director the original director was brian singer but he you know disappeared and
whatnot the director who replaced him would go on to make a much better queer
biopic the following year which we'll talk about later on on the list it's a
flop remy malik is good though the rest of the movie not so much next is bound
which is kind of iconic so it's going into sleigh it's one of the very early
movies from the wachowskis it's lesbian kinky wonderfulness it's got gina
gershon from showgirls it's got jennifer tilly from the chucky universe and it's
it's really good again probably not for everyone just like the birdcage but as
far as i'm concerned slay is kind of for the movies that are iconic these are
the iconic queer movies that everybody should watch and bound is absolutely
iconic and not enough people know about it everyone just thinks of the matrix
when they think of the witch house keys and i'm like no the wachowskis were
doing stuff long before the matrix that you should be paying attention to for
anyone who enjoyed sense8 i think you will get something out of bound so
definitely worth checking out next up we have boy erased which is unfortunately
going into honestly homophobic because the movie has good intentions it wants to
bring light to the act of conversion therapy but in doing so it cast a straight
actor as the kid being sent to conversion therapy troye sivan is there to try
and save it for its gay cred and he does a fantastic job by the way i don't know
why he doesn't get more job acting because more jobs acting cause he's a
fantastic actor but it's just very much this movie is being made to educate
straight people by straight people i don't buy that i don't want that i don't
want movies made for straight people about gay stuff straight people have enough
movies can we have our gay movies at least boy erased goes into honestly
homophobic not because it's homophobic just because i'm kind of like does it
need to exist i don't think it does next up we have boys don't cry which again
i'm gonna put this into fine because it is a fantastic movie amazing
performances hilary swank won an oscar for it for good reason she did a
phenomenal job as brandon tina but god dang it this movie is sad and depressing
and based on a true story so it's not like you know it was like bury your queers
or anything like that it's a phenomenal movie that's totally worth watching if
you're in the right headspace but if you're not in that headspace don't watch it
if this movie were made today and it was an actress playing a trans mask
character i would bury this movie i would throw it under a bus okay so next up
we've got back-to-back boys in the band the first version of the movie came out
in the late 60s i think it was 69 it might have been 70. 1970. recent one came
out uh on netflix a couple of years ago directed by ryan murphy the original
boys in the band i'm putting up into fierce because when you look at the time it
was released like i said the very very very early 70s late 60s it was kind of
revolutionary to have a movie with the entire cast of characters is queer and it
was kind of revolutionary because it looked at them as people with you know
problems and challenges and they weren't perfect and again not the happiest
movie in the world directed by william friedkin who would go on to who had i
believe already if he hadn't already he was about to direct the french
connection he was going to go on to direct the exorcist so william friedkin and
i believe he may pop up somewhere else on this list i can't remember and so the
movie is incredibly well made based on the play so like i said kind of
revolutionary the netflix movie made a couple of years later also really good
actually has i believe it all gay cast or all queer cast at least but that one's
going to go in fine because it is a really good movie and it's totally worth
watching and it may be easier to watch that than the 60s one just because a lot
of people they can't handle old movies for whatever reason it is dealing with a
lot of gay self-loathing which i feel like we're past that now i would hope that
we're past that now but it's a really good movie and it does have an all-gay
cast whereas the original movie didn't so it's kind of a toss-up between the two
of them of which one kind of gets more gay points i'm putting the original in
fierce because of how revolutionary it was at the time and the remake in fine
because it is still a good movie and it is worth watching and it does have an
all gay cast and a gay director and a gay writer but the self-loathing can we
get over it please next up we have brokeback mountain which i'm putting in
honestly homophobic hate me if you want but this movie was is the epitome the
epitome of gay movie made for straight people straight actors straight directors
straight writers straight people all around it's so made by straight people that
they didn't even clue in that having anal sex after eating beans is not a great
idea and also based on a novella written by a straight woman who has been kind
of problematic in the last couple of years jake gyllenhaal and heath ledger do a
great job i don't know i just i i've never got the appeal of the movie like even
when it came out everybody was talking about it and i mean it was months before
i came to a theater near me because i was in such a small town and when it
finally did come and i went and saw it i was expecting to cry because everyone
said this movie so sad i got to the end and he's there you know crying into the
shirt and everything and i'm like i don't get it still i don't i've watched it
since and i don't get the emotional gut punch that people talk about and you
know a lot of gay people and this is something i completely understand did kind
of put it up on a pedestal and still hold it up on a pedestal to this day
because it was so rare to have a gay love story happen in a hollywood movie even
though it was independently produced a hollywood studio had nothing to do with
it it was independent producers come out of the hollywood machine so i
understand why it is put up on such a pedestal and it confuses me like the movie
made almost 200 million dollars worldwide on a budget of like five cents you
would think there would have been a whole lot more gay love stories at least
coming out in the coming years because it was such a moneymaker and it never did
i wonder why and this movie also it didn't start the trend but it kind of
cemented the trend of let's show gay suffering and trauma so that you know the
straight people can be like oh those poor gays and we're gonna see a lot more of
that on this list we're gonna we're gonna do gay suffering so an actor can get
nominated or win an oscar okay and we keep doing that next is not a movie about
gay suffering cabaret which goes into slay because it is maybe the best musical
ever made it takes place in weimar germany before the rise of the third reich by
the end of the movie they have kind of risen but it's before the bad stuff it
starts before the bad stuff really starts to happen and you get to follow a
bisexual love triangle that is actually bisexual the men are sleeping with the
men and the women are sleeping with the men and it's very refreshing and very
interesting and i love that in the early 70s we got a movie that won like a
bajillion oscars except best picture that had at its core a bisexual love
triangle in a musical and the music is fantastic it's kind of gone down in
history as the musical for people who hate musicals i don't hate musicals i love
musicals but cabaret is like the best musical i adore cabaret and bear in mind
the only reason it didn't get best picture pictures because it came out the same
year as the godfather so next we have call me by your name another honestly
homophobic movie though i love the chalamet sometimes not so much in dune this
is another movie that was obviously made for straight people at least it feels
like it was boring it was very boring i know a lot of gay people love this movie
specifically gay men really love this movie and are very willing to overlook the
let's say questionable age difference i found it so boring brokeback mountain
was boring too a lot of gay movies that like everyone loves i find so boring the
stereotype of gay people is that we're so exciting and flamboyant and you know
we've got the feather boas and the drag and everything and then the movies that
everyone is like oh my god i love that gay movie it's so fantastic it's the sad
gays who just cry at the end of the movie if they're not crying into a fireplace
they're crying into a shirt so honestly homophobic and the book is also horrible
don't read it next though we have a really good gay movie but i'm a cheerleader
which is going into fierce because it is a really fun movie definitely not for
everyone anyone who's kind of gone through any kind of type of conversion
therapy probably not the best movie for them to check out because it does it
seems like it's making fun of conversion therapy that it's like a very
heightened version of conversion therapy but from the people i've talked to who
have been through it are like the more you know about conversion therapy the
more this becomes a horror movie because it's a lot more real than you would
expect and you know it has a happy ending which is rare for gay movies to just
kind of have a happy ending that's especially in the 90s it was kind of rare i
wish we could go back to the happy endings in gay movies the next movie
absolutely does not have a happy ending that is the children's hour which is
fierce because it is a phenomenal movie but oh damn is it sad i talked about it
in my history of gay movies video so for more detail you can go there basically
women as a teacher gets accused of being a lesbian basically loses her life and
then kills herself so not for everyone not for everyone but it is just so good
gotta be in the right mindset which means i should put it in fine but i'm
putting it in fierce because it's just so good and the time of which it came out
at the time in this in the 60s actually worked to humanize queer people a little
bit next we have cruising starring al pacino which i talked about in i think
monsters in the closet it's a pretty good movie but it is actually kind of
homophobic so i feel like i gotta put it down there because it is actually
honestly homophobic i don't think they meant it to be i think they had good
intentions but it's still [Music] not the best next we have a twofer first up is
dallas buyers club which is all about a straight guy with hiv fighting for the
ability to get treatment instead of being a movie about say act up or gay men's
health crisis or something like that uh it's about a straight texan and this is
one where jared leto plays a trans sex worker and of course won an oscar for it
because queer suffering and of course the movie about fighting to get treatment
for people with hiv stars the straightest actor in hollywood i'm putting this in
honestly homophobic because it honestly kind of is i don't know if there were
any gay people who worked on that movie did you have to cast a cis straight man
as a transgender woman did the main character have to be a cis straight man
dealing with hiv did it have to be again this is another one of those movies
that's obviously made for straight people which is again like i said a twofer
followed up by the danish girl starring eddie redmayne uh again honestly
homophobic in this case transphobic because again a man playing a trans woman
isn't great because here's a clue here here's some information for people who
don't quite get why that's a problem when it comes to trans characters you are
telling the audience that this man is pretending he is acting as literally
acting as a woman in the story and then people get it in their heads that trans
people are just men acting as women or women acting as men that is problematic
and that is bad and that is something that we need to stop doing and i think
eddie redmayne has actually come out since this movie and said you know if this
was being made today i wouldn't take the role maybe you say you wouldn't take
the role because you didn't win an oscar for this one but you know he's still
working with joanne so yeah it goes into honestly homophobic next is the life
and death of marsha p johnson which goes into slay it's a fantastic documentary
about marsha p johnson there should be like an actual hollywood movie about her
at this point but there still isn't it is absolutely worth watching because the
history is so important to know because there are so many figures in what we
call the gay rights movement who were actually trans women and we give them no
credit and it is just huge like trans erasure by not giving these women credit
for the things that they did and also again kind of doing the danish girl thing
by saying like oh you know men fought for the gay rights and then you see marsha
b johnson and you think oh maybe that's a drag queen no marsha p johnson was a
woman that's why i think everyone needs to watch this documentary which is
followed up oddly by disclosure another sleigh which is a documentary that's on
netflix which is about trans representation in media over about the last century
which is first of all an incredibly well made documentary but also points out
all the problems with with having cis actors playing trans characters and how
that can really kind of give the audience the impression that being trans is
just acting it gives so much information and such a quick just in such a quick
time absolutely worth the watch check it out it's on netflix everybody has
netflix go watch it next we have a movie that is little known among the youthful
gays edge of 17 which is a movie that came out in the 90s but it takes place in
the 80s about two boys who fall in love in the 80s lots of awesome the
soundtrack is phenomenal i saw this movie on cable when i was really young it
was on at like two in the morning i think i was like 10. i just immediately fell
in love with it i can't it's been a while since i watched it but it was really
good and i had such a crush on the blonde guy he's got bleach blonde hair i had
such a crush on him totally worth the watch but i'm gonna put it in fine because
it is very much of the time and so maybe not for everybody but absolutely worth
watching especially if you're around my age and it's a movie that you probably
should have seen at that time frame you know it's kind of the gay never been
kissed kind of thing every 12 year old girl saw never been kissed but every 12
year old boy did not see edge of 17. so definitely worth watching it now to pick
up on it next we have everything everywhere all at once which i'm not going to
talk too much about it goes into slay but i'm not going to talk too much better
because there is a video coming out dealing with everything everywhere all at
once i'm just going to say watch it all right so next we have a movie that i'm
willing to bet a lot of you actually haven't heard of it's called heavenly
creatures and it was directed by peter jackson before lord of the rings it was
actually the movie that convinced new line cinema to allow him to make lord of
the rings it got pj an oscar nomination for best original screenplay i think it
might have been adapted screenplay but best best screenplay it's just this very
sad but beautiful story of two teenage girls kind of falling in love and it's
this in new zealand in the 1950s i think it might be the early 60s but it's that
time period the sort of surrealist world they have to create where they can go
and be themselves because in the real world everyone is pushing against them
it's an incredibly beautiful movie it's kate winslet before titanic it's peter
jackson before lord of the rings it's absolutely worth watching it is it's a
beautiful movie so heavenly creatures goes into fierce next is hedvig and the
angry inch which i'm putting into slay immediately because it is phenomenal i
know a lot of people find it a bit problematic because the main character hedvig
is a born a boy and growing up in east berlin and meets an american military
general i think and falls in love but in order to get married and get out of
east berlin has to have gender reassignment surgery which doesn't go over well
the angry inch and so it's kind of this weird middle ground of choosing to be
trans but not really wanting to be but then accepting the role of the woman and
so it's a lot of people find it problematic but the way i kind of look at it now
as the creator of hedvig john cameron mitchell has come out as non-binary i kind
of see it as more of them exploring that sort of non-binary identity that in
between between man and woman it's just fantastic and the music is amazing and
john cameron mitchell was fantastic in it they got nominated for a golden globe
but not an oscar which i feel is just a slap in the face that should have been
nominated for an oscar for the next movie we have another documentary and i'm
putting it in fierce it's called how to survive a plague which is the story of
act up which is basically the reason that treatments for aids and hiv actually
became available to people they were a nice way of saying it is that they were a
protest movement um straight people at the time would maybe even go so far as to
call them terrorists but they were not they were a protest movement fighting to
make aids treatment available and they're the only reason that hiv and aids
today is considered a very livable disease it's something that if you're
diagnosed with it's not a death sentence anymore you take a pill every day and
you're probably good and it's because of these people that we got there and the
fact that thousands of them had to die literally fighting for their lives before
we could get there because the government especially in the united states was so
just the government just didn't give a damn and i feel like their story really
ought to be told because there are a lot of people who don't know the story of
act up and don't know the story of the gay men's health crisis and don't know
the story of hiv and aids and they just know that it used to kill you and now it
doesn't and it's like yeah but the story of how we got there is so important and
necessary i feel like a lot of people my age and younger don't appreciate it so
much because we came of aids after protease inhibitors kind of kicked in really
necessary viewing for people who don't know the full context of what was going
on in the 80s and early 90s next we have the imitation game which i'm putting
into honestly homophobic because we have a person a real life person in alan
turing who was gay and the movie basically ignores it until the last five
minutes and they're like oh and he was chemically castrated by the government
has had they focused on his achievements which were amazing achievements in
scientific fields and basically won world war ii for the allies but the movie
doesn't really deal with the fact that he won world war ii for the allies for
england and then england punished him by chemically castrating him and putting
him in a state where he killed himself it very much glosses over it in the end i
would have put it into flop because of that but the writer of the screenplay
very vehemently said i this is not a gay movie girl you wrote a movie about a
gay man and you are saying it's not a gay movie i am sorry you have mistaken
your screenplay for something that it is not and so because of that it goes into
honestly homophobic next we have in and out which is a comedy from the mid 90s
which is about a man who thinks he's straight for most of his life and then
realizes he's gay just as he's about to get married and it's kind of about his
coming out process and he's uh late 30s early 40s ish so you know he's oh god
older oh i feel old now and it did really well in the 90s and was really well
liked in the 90s it is very of its time though it is very much a 90s movie so
i'm gonna put it in fine because it's not the best movie ever made by any means
it's not the best gay movie ever made it's not great but it's worth a watch like
if you're bored and you've watched all the other movies on the list that i'm
recommending it's worth putting it on to just kind of see where the mindset of
hollywood was when it came to gay people in the mid 90s next we have the movie
kill your darlings which i used a bunch of footage from in the recent uh queer
panic video in that section of the queer panic video it is the story of that
that's what the movie's about it's not a great movie it puts a lot more humanity
i think into the character slash real person of lucian carr than he had in real
life who may or may not be the progenitor of the demon twink but it is a
well-made movie and the performances are really good and there's you know a gay
sex scene between deng de haan and daniel radcliffe so i can't say it's a flop
so i'm going to put it in fine but maybe seek out a documentary about the murder
if you actually want to know what happened and the whole conflict and everything
because it's a bit more complicated than the movie portrays which is a running
theme apparently because the next movie is king cobra which is a highly
fictionalized version of the murder of brian coaches i talk about this in my
documentary making it big it's the story of kind of the drama between brian
coaches and brent corrigan sean lockhart the movie has some really solid
performances in there especially from garrett clayton and christian slater they
do a fantastic job in it gary clayton is a lot more built than brent was at the
time considering brent was legitimately underage during his time working with
brian it's probably better to have him look a little older but the problem with
the movie is that it does not tell the truth it erases real people it kind of
moves blame onto different people that weren't to blame it doesn't make brian
look completely innocent but it kind of goes out of its way to say isn't it sad
that he's dead and it's like well it's sad when anyone is murdered but brian
coaches was kind of an absolutely trash person the movie really goes out of its
way to make it seem like he wasn't i think they were trying to do that in the
screenplay phase to get the family to allow them to use his name which they did
not anyway that goes into flop because i know the story of brent corrigan slash
sean lockhart very well intimately and i know that there is a much better movie
to be made of it than was made in king cobra so next we have the looking movie
which was produced by hbo as a sort of consolation for not giving it a final
season it's fine i think the movie is actually better than the show i watched
most of the show and i just could not get into it i tried it like i was
expecting it to try and be a new queers folk and it was so boring the fact that
i got through as much of the show as i did is entirely because of jonathan groff
but the movie is better than the show and so i'm putting it in fine it's worth
watching if you did watch the show if you haven't watched the show don't bother
because it means you have to watch the show to know what's going on in the movie
and then i just i don't recommend watching the show next up we have the very
controversial love simon based on the book by becky albertalli simon in the homo
sapien agenda which i really liked the book and at the time i really liked the
movie i do think the movie's really cute but it is very much a movie i i think
the filmmaker the film the director um i'm pretty sure he was like meant to make
a movie for gay teenagers but what it turned into was a movie for teenage girls
and their moms to kind of go ah aren't the gays cute and that's what it became
on social media so it's it's not a bad movie i'm also annoyed that the the lead
actor is ostensibly straight i don't think he's come out one way or the other i
think he's kind of remained vague about it you're making a movie with a gay lead
character find a gay actor please they made such a big deal of this movie being
so gay and it's like you couldn't find a gay actor in all of hollywood really
but i'm gonna put it in fine because it's not a bad movie but if you're kind of
older and cynical as i have become since the movie came out you're probably not
going to enjoy it okie dokie so next we have mambo italiano which was a canadian
movie made in the early 2000s and kind of aped the um my big fat greek wedding
thing except it was italian even though they actually shared a lot of the same
actors for the supporting cast because they were like well greeks and italians
they look alike it's mediterranean what's the difference and it's a cute movie
like it i wouldn't say it's like peak cinema or anything but it's worth watching
it's not offensive is it as good as my big fat greek wedding no but neither was
the sequel to my big factory wedding i'm gonna put it in fine fine is the middle
of the road that seems to be where most of the movies are ending up so that
makes sense so yeah worth watching if you're looking for something very
light-hearted that you can just put on and kind of enjoy and not have to think
about too much and if you want to be exposed to canadian cinema before i do that
to you before i expose you to canadian cinema sounds so ominous anyway next we
have a movie from the czech republic called mandragora which i accidentally
watched when i was a teenager it's it's a long movie it's like three hours long
maybe even longer about a teenage sex worker in prague i believe it's like it's
dark as far as like tone it's not dissimilar from requiem for a dream so if
you've seen requiem for a dream and you're like i can deal with that for three
and a half hours and reading subtitles absolutely worth watching because it's
actually a phenomenal movie and nobody like hears about this movie i added this
to the list because it's really good it's not on any of the lists because they
all ignore movies that aren't in english but i added this to the list because it
is really good so i'm putting it in fierce because it is a really really good
movie next we have maurice which is the movie that made every gay man in the
world fall in love with hugh grant and it's really good it's a very it's a very
certain type of movie it is um if you've seen any other merchant if you know
what a merchant ivory film is you know what the kind of movie i'm talking about
it's very slow it's not the most exciting movie in the world but it is really
well made and hugh grant does a fantastic job in it as a period piece watching a
gay story take place pre-1960s it's almost a novelty while watching the movie
and so i'm gonna put it in fierce the next movie is mayor pete a documentary
about pete butterjudge the next movie is milk the 2008 film starring sean penn
as harvey milk directed by gus van sant i loved this movie i haven't watched it
since 2010 i think somewhere around there it came out while i was in film school
and i saw it five times in theaters and i cried every time the ending of the
movie with the candles going down the street i just bawled every time total
crying mess i took i went so many times because i just kept taking different
people i was in school with to the movie and so i'm putting this in sleigh
because it is an amazing movie it should have won best picture that year in my
humble opinion it's a movie that really makes you wonder okay if harvey milk had
not been murdered how much further along would gay rights have been not just
today but like say in the 80s in the 90s at least in like even even just
limiting it to california how much further would gay rights have been in
california would it have been 2004 before the mayor of san francisco said i'm
going to start performing same-sex marriages would that have maybe happened in
the 80s or the 90s had harvey milk been around to kind of be the mouthpiece for
the movement that we really needed and never got again really there was never a
sort of martin luther king figure for the lgbt rights movement and harvey milk
was kind of being set up to be that figure but died before he could really get a
national stage he may have been the first gay person to be elected to congress
at least the first out gay person and of course you have to take into context
that would he have lived through the aids crisis and all of that but even then
you know it's just it's interesting to think about how much further along we
might have been had dan white not apparently eaten too many twinkies and went
and killed harvey milk and mayor moscone that day in san francisco and next we
have monster which is going directly into the fierce category it's not going
into slay because it is dark but it is charlize thrawn at her best everyone says
she won the oscar because she got ugly for the role i i do not believe that for
one minute she deserved that oscar because of the performance she gave it was
phenomenal it was her being amazing it was patty jenkins being amazing before
she had too much control and ruined the second wonder woman movie it was really
really good and we don't have enough movies about lesbian serial killers so if
you are in a dark mood put on monster it's it's a really phenomenal movie it's
kind of been forgotten over the last 20 years it's like oh that movie that
charlize thrawn won her oscar for yeah but it's actually a really good movie and
i'd also like to point out which nick just reminded me of charlize thrawn has a
trans child who is she is very protective of and she's a huge ally so support
charlize thrawn always next we have moonlight the movie that lost best picture
to lala land i mean no it won best picture right faye dunaway doesn't think so
she she's still angry about the gays and mommy dearest it go it goes into slay
it's a lot of people were like oh it's going to be the black brokeback mountain
it's like that's not how movies work you know it follows this person this gay
person through their life it's not about their relationship with someone it is
about them being a person and they're gay but they are first and foremost a
person who is growing up in this kind of environment that you know the overall
environment is toxic toward gay people hyper masculine thug crime environment
but in the end of the movie he finds someone who allows him to kind of exit that
a little bit and we don't know if you know he leaves the life of crime or
anything like that but for a moment he is allowed to leave that and be just a
person instead of a gangster you know he lets he's allowed to let the facade
drop and watching the progression of this character go from this innocent child
to this teenager trying to make it through with an incredibly abusive mother to
this man who has put up every possible wall to protect himself from the world
and the people in it to get to the end of the movie and see him let some of
those walls drop for one person it's incredibly touching and i am so sad that
it's really for so many people just remembered as the movie that won best
picture instead of la la land instead of it being you know one of the best
movies made in the last 20 years so next we have mulholland drive david lynch's
lesbian fever dream if you've never seen a david lynch movie this is probably a
safe place to start no no i i don't know what i would recommend being the first
david lynch movie to watch but mulholland drive is i think along with blue
velvet tied for his best movie naomi watch deserved best actress for this movie
if you have seen it you know what i'm talking about because she runs the gamut
from like innocent girl moving from the midwest to california to be an actress
to rung out actress who has been put through it by the system and the hollywood
system and is just you know left a junkie in the end oh my god it's such a good
movie i i'm still angry that david lynch didn't win best director for this movie
because there is there are moments of this movie that reach a level in
filmmaking that other movies could only hope to reach there is a moment that is
considered the most terrifying moment in film history and this isn't a horror
movie this and it's not a gory thing it's just the existence of a type of person
and it's considered more horrifying than like anything else ever made and that
has nothing to do with the whole the main storyline which is about amnesia and
all sorts of stuff it's watch it but watch it when you have absolutely nothing
else to do and all of your like phone and your phone and computer and everything
is off because you need to pay attention to this movie and then watch it again
and suddenly everything will click it's one of those movies you gotta watch
twice so yeah mulholland drive goes up to sleigh because it's one of my favorite
movies flop is missing so many movies i know i'm seeing so much nicer this time
i filmed this video once before and i was much meaner the last time alright so
the next movie is my own private idaho uh it's going up into fierce oh maybe
fine see it's better than the movies in fine but it's a movie that's kind of
like you need to be in the right mood to watch my own private idaho yeah but man
dragora also is that kind of mood and the children's hour so i'm not really
following that rule yeah i'm not following the fine rule at all i'm following my
heart's rule the movie stars keanu reeves in probably his best performance of
his entire career and river phoenix also giving his best performance of his
entire career and watching it now it's so like the movie is sad in itself but
seeing what river phoenix was capable of and then knowing that he died not long
after the movie was made is like wow we've lost a huge talent so it's it's it's
like it's a sad movie anyway but it's even sadder with the real life context so
next we have the normal heart which is a relatively recent movie from i think it
was hbo based on the play of the same name by larry kramer which is a
fictionalized account of the creation of act up in the gay men's health crisis
so it's kind of following the same story-ish of how to survive a plague but with
kind of different people it's fictionalized because larry kramer had a habit of
writing things about his friends and his friends being very angry at him about
it so he fictionalized it and they still knew who they were anyway the the cast
is kind of split between straight actors and gay actors it's directed by ryan
murphy and ryan murphy i think is a much better film director than sort of show
runner for tv his tv shows are like great for half a season and then fall off
but his movies don't have time to fall off so they just kind of sustain their
goodness so the normal heart is going into fierce not just because it's a good
movie but because people need to know more about that time period and they need
to know about the people who were actually fighting instead of saying that nancy
reagan was a champion of human rights if you know who i'm talking about you know
who i'm talking about so next we have paris is burning a documentary about the
ballroom scene in new york city in the 1980s which a couple of years ago i would
have put into slay but have recently found out that there's some
behind-the-scenes stuff that sucks being that the filmmakers have been very
cagey with the people they made the documentary about like were kind of
perfectly fine with them living in poverty and didn't try and do anything to
help them or anything like that and they were just like let's make a movie about
these people so although it is iconic for any drag queen and for any queer
person who has watched it anyone who's been involved in the ballroom scene at
all if you have watched a single season of drag race you have heard a thousand
quotes from this movie but i gotta put it in flop just because of how the
producers ended up treating the people they were making this documentary about
so next we have philadelphia which stars tom hanks and antonio banderas and
denzel washington it was directed by jonathan demi right after silence of the
lambs and it was his way of apologizing to the gay community for silence of the
lambs because lots of gay people were angry at him and lots of trans people were
angry at him for silence of the lambs and so he felt like he needed to apologize
by making a movie humanizing people in the gay community especially aids victims
which was very good at the time because it did kind of you know with tom hanks
who had the one-two punch of getting best actor for philadelphia and forrest
gump one after the other and it's a very well made movie but my problem with it
is that it is very much oh look how the gays do suffer and so even though it's
incredibly well made i gotta put it in flop because i am really just over the oh
look how the gays suffer movies yeah so sorry next we have the iconic the
impenetrable pink flamingos which i want to put into slay because i absolutely
love it but i'm not going to because i'm going to put into fierce because you
need to be in the right mindset to watch pink flamingos you need to be in the
right mindset to watch most of john waters movies barring like hair spray and
cereal mom but pink flamingos in particular because there are some scenes people
might consider to be in bad taste maybe if you have recently watched cello 120
days of sodom then this would be a good palette cleanser for you okay we just
had to do a little cut because the hard drive wanted to crap out right where
we're getting to the end of it so next up priscilla queen of the desert which
i'm gonna put into fierce because how can i not put it into fears again talked
about this in the camp video which is like two hours long but you should totally
go watch it cause like nobody did priscilla is hilarious i find that a lot of
americans don't find it funny and i wonder if it's like a uh there's a
disconnect between american comedy and comedy from all the commonwealth nathan
nathan's nations like the uk and ireland and and canada and australia and new
zealand america's comedy is kind of different you've got a great performance
from hugo weaving before the matrix and lord of the rings you got a great
performance from guy pierce before like memento and stuff like that and guy
pierce is just like totally sexy the entire time he's on screen and a great
performance from terence stamp who is playing again a man playing a trans woman
but considering the time when which this movie was made that was kind of brave i
hate saying that that it was brave but you know it could have been like a career
killer at the time but he just did it so well and but you know if this movie was
made today i would be like demanding that that character be played by a trans
person considering it's like almost 30 years old i kind of have to look at it
with that framing of how many movies had trans characters who were wholly
sympathetic at that time and this one does have a wholly sympathetic trans
character and so i'm like okay me a cis person will forgive you for that but if
you're trans i totally get it if you'd like to hate the movie i totally get it
next up we have rocket man which is the better version of bohemian rhapsody same
director much better so much gayer actually has gay sex in there between taran
edgerton and richard madden which is like put me in between those two please and
it doesn't shy away from the gay it doesn't shy away from the queerness it
doesn't it's not like it's very gay and very truthful that was one of the nice
things is that elton john was like there's no point in making a movie about me
if we try and sanitize it and so they didn't he is a drug addict and he does
have problems and stuff like that the ending of the movie is him kind of
overcoming a lot of that stuff and so it's fantastic it's so so good and then
taryn edgerton ended up like becoming really good friends with elton john and
narrated his audiobook and everything it's it's just a fantastic movie really
really good so i'm gonna put it in fierce next we have the rocky horror picture
show which is so many people's first queer movie i think i've got to put it in
fierce again because it is it's so good i mean it's bad but it's so good it you
know introduced the world to tim curry so that alone is worth putting it in
fears it inspired generations upon generations of baby drag queens i know that
some of the lyrics are problematic sweet transvestite from transsexual
transylvania but it's it is pure camp and the thing is the movie is very aware
that it's problematic you know not trying to say that any of these people are
great people because even it like acknowledges that brad and janet are boring
and not entirely against the idea of cheating on each other with the right sweet
transvestite or kind of newly born sexy man so yeah i love rocky horror um i'm
kind of tempted to move it up to sleigh to be honest yeah it has to it's iconic
it's an iconic queer movie it has to next we have stonewall directed by roland
emmerich best known for anonymous and also independence day and that god-awful
godzilla movie he is gay and he wanted to make a movie that would kind of tell
the historical story of stonewall from the point of view of a midwestern blonde
white boy who happened to be there and started the gay revolution um instead of
the people who were actually there fighting the cops who were trans women and
lesbians and uh people of color whereas all the white men were you know
screening away so that they could go back to their office jobs the next day it's
honestly homophobic epitomizes all of the negative stuff i've been talking about
in this video everything that's in flop and honestly homophobic is kind of right
there in stonewall and it's so weird that because stonewall wanted to be the gay
movie it wanted to be you know the gay oscar movie and it was just bad like not
just the content like badly it was badly made it was it erased so many trans
characters it erased characters of color maybe with the best intentions but
roland know your limitations don't try and win an oscar speaking of oscars the
favorite which is going immediately into slay because the favorite is one of the
best movies made in the last like 20 years it is fantastic olivia coleman is
just iconic in this movie i started watching it knowing that everyone was kind
of like over the moon about it i didn't know there were lesbians in it and i
started watching it i was like oh is this are they is it oh oh oh i adore olivia
coleman now i've always loved emma stone and rachel vice and then olivia coleman
comes on the screen and it's just like oh this is magical the cinematography is
beautiful and the costumes and everything and you know i'll watch anything with
nicholas holt in it and him just being a dumbass during the entire movie is
great and duck racing have you ever seen ducks race if it's in the movie you
should see it uh the kids are all right i'm gonna the kids are all right is
basically um two lesbian moms are dealing with kind of their kids meeting their
biological father and you know it's it's it's fine it's fine it's not like
revolutionary or anything the performances are good the directing is good the
script is good but it's not like oh you have to rush out and watch this right
now unlike the next movie the old guard which is absolutely going into fierce
because i would put it in sleigh but the main characters aren't queer but just
watching the movie and then suddenly there's two guys in the background cuddling
and then you have this profession of love from one of them and it's just like
from one of them to the other and it's like oh my god i love this where has this
been in every action movie ever why is this just happening now and the action in
it is unbelievable amazing action again charlize thrawn because she is ally
supreme and i just i i loved it it was fantastic i talked about it in the yuri
on ice video oddly and it's just such a good movie the hilarious thing was
nobody was talking about joe and nicki being gay because although it is it's
obvious you know they have that scene where they you know profess their love to
each other everything else in the movie was so good and it's kind of this you
know gay people were talking about joe and nicky but straight people were like
this movie's badass and it's like hollywood see when you make a really good
movie and there are gay characters in it and you don't make a big deal about
their being gay characters in it they just exist like we do in real life people
don't make a big deal about their being gay characters in it because the people
watch the movie and they're like this is awesome and then you have everyone
saying this is an awesome movie and then the bigots are too afraid to get ripped
apart on twitter so they don't say anything bad about it so to certain studios
who keep trying to make their being gay characters in a movie the biggest
pressed tour event in the world stop doing that next we have some more much
needed sapphic representation with carol which is not a happy movie by any means
but really good and one of those movies that's just like some of the best
performances i've ever seen from rooney mara and cate blanchett and it's so rare
to see a movie about queer people taking place in that time frame in that you
know that late 50s early 60s kind of hoop skirt housewife kind of era and to
kind of show just what it was like to be not just gay but to be a gay woman at
that time because you were a part of two minorities that were basically
considered powerless and worthless like women were only good for making babies
so if you were a lesbian well your one utility in the world was gone so what's
the use of you at all and that's kind of the outlook that people had at the time
so being a lesbian was really worse than being a gay man because if you were a
gay man at least you could still you know i don't know lift a hammer and build
something or something like that but for lesbians it was like you have no use to
us you know the movie does not shy away from saying that and one of cate
blanchett's best performances rent 2005. when rent first came out it was like my
favorite movie ever because it came out at a time i had just gotten my first
digital video camera and i was just starting to make movies uh like movies that
i was actually editing and stuff i started making movies when i was in the sixth
grade but i was in the 11th grade at this time and i had just gotten my first
digital video camera and i was making movies and editing and experimenting and
doing stuff like that and the whole idea of no but no day but today and be
creative and all of that just really was very important to me and then i watched
it again i didn't watch it for probably a decade and i just had really fond
memories of it because it came up came to me at a time in my life that i have
very fond memories of because i'm a gay who has fond memories of high school
because i'm weird like that because i watched lindsey ellis's video tearing rent
apart and i was like no rent is amazing what are you talking about you crazy
woman what are you talking about and then i rewatched it and i was like maybe
i'm the crazy one when i watched the movie originally i really identified with
mark and when i watched it the 10 years later i wanted to beat him with that
camera everything in it just i mean just go watch lindsay's video on it and i am
eventually going to make a video talking about rent because it is necessary some
of the musical numbers are like supreme like awesome like fantastic i love them
i will put on take me or leave me and i will belt for four minutes straight but
i've gotta put it in flop because it is so much gen x angst and as a millennial
i can't i cannot accept that anymore mark is offered like a sixty thousand
dollar a year part-time job filming videos and he quits and this takes place in
the late 80s flop it's a flop but it was also a flop at the box office so last
but certainly not least angels in america talking about the movie but also the
play because there is a pro-shot version of the play that you can check out and
it's totally worth it because andrew garfield is in it and i love andrew
garfield angels in america subtitled a gay fantasia on national themes and it's
very gay it deals with a lot of very kind of philosophical things you know has
god abandoned us rise of the aids crisis questions of identity it and and lots
of gay characters none of which are actually played by gay actors i think but
that's fine because the movie is amazing it's one of the rare movies that is
very willing to say just how the reagan administration was when it came to aids
it is as a movie the hbo movie it was technically a mini series so it is six
hours long so it is a commitment but it is worth every minute and you can watch
it in hour long chunks because it was originally aired as six episodes so angels
in america the last entry in this tier making thing that i'm doing is going into
slay we're ending on a high note instead of rent which would not be ending on a
high note despite it being a musical and unlike rent which i don't want to say
completely ignored how terrible aids was angels in america does not shy away
from pointing out how horrible the aids crisis was that it's not just oh you get
sick and eventually die through the character of roy cohn and through the
character of prior walter you see how horrible that diagnosis was what it did to
your body and why it would kind of make you question the existence of god and
when you're kind of in that situation where you're questioning it and then
literal angels start coming to you you know what does that do to your mindset
but yeah so that is the final tear i was expecting there to be more flops and
more homophobic ones in there but i was feeling generous the ones in sleigh bird
cage bound cabaret the life and death of marsha p johnson disclosure everything
everywhere all at once hedvig in the angry inch milk moonlight mulholland drive
the rocky horror picture show the favorite and angels in america are absolutely
required viewing and really everything in fierce is as well uh there's just some
things in fierce that kind of have a content warning that go with them so yeah
for everyone who's been asking me what my favorite gay movies are there you go
you know now and if you've got some gay movies that aren't listed here let me
know in the comments below because i would love to watch them because i love
expanding my knowledge of gay cinema because most of my gay media intake
recently has been tv shows and anime and so you know recommend the anime and the
tv shows as well definitely recommend the movies because maybe there's some good
ones that i'm missing there's definitely some bad ones that aren't listed but
that's not because i forgot about them that's because they weren't a part of the
best of lists that i drew from thank you guys so much for watching like
subscribe share the video and if you have the means to do it sign up for my
patreon or youtube membership i promise i make it worthwhile i hope you guys
have a great week and i'll see you again when we talk about attack on titan oh
boy