---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/m5-szckamtc"

date: 2023-04-26
title: The Glass Ceiling of Gay Success (A Discussion)
runtime: 41:02
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20230426+M5-SZckaMtc+The+Glass+Ceiling+of+Gay+Success+(A+Discussion).webm"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-public-records/The+Glass+Ceiling+of+Gay+Success+(A+Discussion).mp4"
# description: "a 'Gays Behaving Badly' podcast episode on <xyz>."
notes:
  - podcast

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">

[sponsor plug]

[patreon link]
[website link]

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

this video is brought to you by Squarespace hello everyone and welcome to gays
Behaving Badly the podcast YouTube show that Neil Patrick Harris will absolutely
never come on my name is James you okay over there hi I'm Nick I'm I'm Nick
that's Nick um yeah welcome to the show um today we are talking about what are
we talking about today today we are talking about the gay glass ceiling and the
pressure that a lot of queer creators are under to produce excellent media will
continue to being invisible while continuing to be invisible um which is it's
something that's been coming closer and closer to mind for me um because you
know I'm seeing a lot of uh a lot of shows coming out that have queer creators
like like Heart Stopper for instance Alice oseman is an executive producer on
that as well as the author of The the books on which it's based um and I'm
seeing like a lot of queer creators getting one really big hit but basically
being ignored like they're not being kind of like head hunted as like oh we want
you to do a show for us next and there's really only like a couple that get that
treatment whereas you find you know straight white show runners or straight
white writers in Hollywood who just get handed million dollar gig after million
dollar gig and this is something that has been kind of on my mind for some time
ever since especially since before I published my book gentlemen's club
available on Amazon and it and and at nthurgot.com um so uh like I've kind of
really felt that crunch too like you know how much more meticulous I need to be
about the media that I create which has actually affected the media that I
output yeah I just don't put out as much because I I I'm so terrified that it's
not up to a standard that is going to uh need to be what it needs to be in order
to be noticed we are going to talk about that today and how that how and our
observation with how we're looking at that in the culture yeah okay so is that
the is that is that the introduction is that um segment one uh like and we do
want to specify that naturally We There are queer we're not saying that there
aren't any queer creators out there or is that there aren't any Stellar queer
creators we're outlining that they're in spite of some very talented creators in
all Fields queer people um there there's this kind of uh what's the metaphor I
can use like an iron curtain like something like that like a lavender curtain
the lavender curtain uh title for the video um it's like even if they're popular
and even in queer spaces like these these people are kind of held up for like
kind of a one once and done yeah because like I was I actually looked up a list
earlier today um basically it was like the 50 most influential gays in Hollywood
and other than six of them and I wrote the six of them down and we're actually
going to talk about them in this video um most of them are basically just actors
who produce stuff for themselves to be in because they're not being cast because
they're out yeah and so it's like okay if 40 of them on the list are just actors
who are trying to make sure that they have jobs yeah how are they actually
powerful and how do how does that compare to the power of like the one or two
that we'll get into who actually have pull in Hollywood yeah and yeah and just
like how what they have to be to get that pull yeah um and like like I said like
how why is it that you know a straight white screenwriter can get you know
million dollar job after million dollar job writing these gigantic movies that
may or may not make any money and they constantly get forgiven if they're
complete bombs but if a great Creator makes something like you know I'm not a
fan of bros but Billy Eichner for instance you know is Billy Eichner gonna get
given another 30 million dollar movie going on and like just touching on that
like we give them a hard time however one of the arguments I saw around the time
of the movie being realized oh this is a flop um was the discussion like okay
gay people straight people get their bad rom-coms all the time yeah it's fair
that we have one or two also um yeah so like there are some straight rom-coms
that are a hell of a lot worse than Bros and I don't think we've ever said Billy
arkner should just not get work because like we said like there are straight
creators who continue like they're they're constantly on the grind oh yeah um it
takes a if you get that if you're a straight crater and you get that straight
man specifically a straight white man and you get that one good movie The amount
of free passes you get Matthew McConaughey has made some horrible movies and he
still gets gigantic paychecks yeah and like quite frankly I think that you know
even though he has an Oscar I find that his Oscar acting is very interchangeable
I think most of his acting you know no Tino shade but yeah yeah Matthew
McConaughey is very good at one thing yeah and that said like it's it's not like
we're saying these people should not Nicholas Cage another good example so yeah
we're going to get into the actual meat of the video now but before we do that
we're going to have a little ad read because this video is in fact sponsored
which a lot of our videos have been recently thank you this video is brought to
you by Squarespace building a site with Squarespace is a great way to build your
brand and reach a wider audience I know a lot of amazing artists watch our
videos and squarespace's members areas and high quality desktop and mobile photo
galleries are a great way to Showcase your art and their monetization services
offer a safe and trackable way to get paid for your commissions Nick and I have
had a presence on social media for a while now and obviously this channel but
the channel itself hasn't had a website before until today using squarespace's
incredibly intuitive and easy to use tools we've built the James Summerton
Channel website featuring a Blog where Nick and I write about topics that
probably wouldn't make for a full video a special section where you can check
out preview chapters of my upcoming novel as well as check out Nick's novel
gentlemen's club and using squarespace's video hosting feature we're even able
to give you access to videos that YouTube made us remove head to squarespace.com
for a free trial and when you're ready to launch go to squarespace.com James S
that's j-a-m-e-s-s to save ten percent off of your first purchase of a website
or domain start showing the world how amazing you are today with Squarespace and
you guys can check out the Channel's website at www.jamesummerton.com the first
thing we want to talk about is like who qualifies as a successful Creator um in
the world uh and this is kind of where the list comes in like we wanted to talk
about that like yeah so I have a list of six people here who are well seven
people six entries yes sorry about that seven people six entries among the gays
he's considered very successful because for a gay producer in Hollywood he is
very successful and that's Greg berlante uh if you don't know who Greg berlanti
is he is the Mind behind all of the cwdc stuff the arrowverse um the flash all
of that as well as Riverdale and the movie love Simon and so he is as far as the
CW goes he is King of the CW like he's like the Kevin foggy of the CW yeah like
he has control over that with an iron grip and you know it helps that it's the
shows are really popular like you can argue the quality of them but most of them
are really popular so he knows how to hit the pulse yeah which is a rare Talent
actually like it's a very rare Talent like whether you're making art media or
pop media knowing how to not Pander but just service your audience is something
that is that's one of the rarest artistic skills you have that are out there
yeah and he has dozens of shows going at any given time like it's not just like
oh he works on Arrow and then next year he works on the flash he has dozens of
shows going uh all at once on the CW and movies and like he's a very very busy
fella and I would be curious let me know in the comments below did you know he
existed before that like I I've heard before before like us letting you know I
have heard of him I've heard him talked about because like I I'm me probably
mostly like we were roommates for a very long time I heard bleed over from your
living space um for podcasts and YouTube and stuff and you kind of come over and
talk to me like hey you want to hear what happened today in Hollywood yeah um
and the answer was always generally yes because that drama like lots of drama uh
the drama is like electric electrolytes for the gays um so the next one that I I
have listed here is Russell T Davies who a lot of nerds will obviously know of
because he is the showrunner for Doctor Who Um he is the one who brought Doctor
Who back from a long Hiatus it stopped in the 80s I think and he brought it back
um in 2005. starting with the ninth for the movie and then the Ninth Doctor yeah
and then it was the Ninth Doctor Who the War Doctor was the movie I think and
then uhuvian's in the in chat in comments will correct me yeah I I haven't
watched Good Doctor Who before but I'm going to check out the new season um and
it's been staggering like successful since he hugely successful huge and he also
created Queer as Folk and he has done any number of British person right and and
a executive produced the American version too okay um and he's done any number
of queer related shows in England it's a sin probably being the most um revered
of them but you know talk to someone outside of queer or nerd spaces they don't
know who the hell Russell T Davies is yeah another one is Cindy Holland who's an
executive at Netflix she is the executive that made Orange is the New Black Hat
this is a name I have not heard yeah I didn't hear it either she made sex
education happen which is another huge hit or just the New Black I've never even
heard of her before Orange is the New Black is basically what put Netflix on the
map like Netflix Netflix creative products Orange is the New Black and house of
cards came out like very similar but I think I heard about Orange is the New
Black before House of Cards um and people just died for that like yeah Orange is
the New Black is one of those rare Netflix shows that lasted for like seven or
eight seasons yeah yeah and then we have the Wachowski sisters who have done a
lot of stuff you know sense8 is the most popular among the queer audience but
Sensei never found an audience big enough to justify it being renewed for a full
third season um and really although they are known by the the wider audience
they're really only known for the Matrix even though they have done other stuff
they've done Cloud Atlas they've done Speed Racers everybody rips apart Speed
Racer it's a fun movie it also just looks gorgeous oh it's an amazing movie like
if they could re-release Speed Racer and HDR in 3D I'd go see that uh you did
Jupiter Ascending they did one other one they were director they were producers
on V for Vendetta yeah they produced V for Vendetta uh which you know I
definitely got a lot SM Wachowski feels off of that and the thing about the
wachowskis is I don't think they're bad directors I think they're quite good as
directors um it's just for some reason their movies aren't don't do and the
thing is like when you watch the wachowski's movies none of them are any weirder
than the Matrix yeah it's just for some reason the Matrix happened at just the
right moment I also think like Cloud Atlas is no weirder than the Matrix but it
was considered a much more like artsy movie I actually really like Cloud Atlas I
I read the book I thought the book is phenomenal I let I heard that the book uh
was more sequential it had more of a structure whereas in the the movie was more
parallel I should watch the movie to kind of compare it to the book it has your
guy in there the one the gay actor you really like he was cute oh oh Ben winshaw
yeah he actually played a gay character but uh next person on the list uh yeah
the next person on the list is Victoria Alonso who was Kevin feige's number two
at Marvel Studios for since the beginning of Marvel Studios yes and she was an
incredibly powerful gay woman of color like she was a force to be reckoned with
in Hollywood yeah and she just got fired and the excuse is that she was uh the
basically uh it was that she was in control of the special effects and and the
special effects have been suffering and it's all her fault and so she got fired
she was basically the scapegoat for the Marvel movies having not done well
recently but they didn't but people don't seem to take into account that she was
also in charge of the special effects for end game and uh Captain America the
Winter Soldier specifically yeah and like all of that the one that she should
get credit for is um Thanos yeah the the first endgame movie Infinity War yeah
because Thanos was that that was schmiegel quality um just for how you you saw
pores on his face yeah like it was it was phenomenally well done and like she's
not a visual effects artist but she is a she was the producer in charge of that
and she obviously had many more roles within the MCU um but Disney fired her she
was the scapegoat for basically why Marvel movies aren't doing well right now
and you know she she got the blame for it and a lot of people were like oh she's
she's she's mean but now a lot of people are coming around and kind of seeing
wait a minute yeah because if you fired Kevin feige because [ __ ] was messing
up then you know then everyone sees oh we have a problem here but if you fire
Victoria Alonso who most people don't know who she is then it makes it seem like
you're correcting something you're correcting a mistake that's that isn't like
that big of a mistake yeah and okay yeah yeah and so apparently she was also
very vocal about Disney's silence on the downstairs and it is very vocal about
them erasing gay characters and uh even like Pride Flags out of Marvel movies
and it has come out that she that that's actually a component for why they
wanted to get rid of her because she was very quote annoying yeah so this is all
just to sort of highlight the kind of positions of authority that queer
creatives need to have to be recognized even on a yeah like subdermal level the
second in command of the MCU even at that phase of your career you're Expendable
yeah you yeah and that's the thing like we look at um Victoria Alonso Ryan
Murphy specifically is the biggest yeah I was leaving Ryan Murphy for last
because Ryan Murphy is the the the the the the outlier for all of these like
Greg brilanti is very well known you know because as within geek circles and
some gay circles because he is a gay executive basically running the DC Universe
at CW at the CW but Ryan Murphy you know he got a billion dollar deal with
Netflix and they have already made that money back because of Dahmer but like
you look at Ryan Murphy's work and you have Glee American Horror Story American
Crime Story pose um and some of his shows flop horrendously and he does get the
sort of um the golden teeth the oopsie Daisy you can come back and try again but
like it's the fact that like for the number of whites for the we'll just say
privilege for the number of privileged producers and creatives who get that
golden parachute who get the oopsie Daisy card yeah um and Greg berlenty like he
hasn't kind of made anything really particularly floppish um I mean there's been
stuff in the DC the the CW stuff that like Batgirl or Batwoman I think it's just
the fact that you know what he what does succeed succeed so hard that they're
afraid to get rid of him because like when he hits he hits well yeah like okay
yeah he you know messed up and you know Batwoman wasn't a huge success but then
there's Riverdale yeah then there's Riverdale and Riverdale prints money for
them um and you know the flash was printing money for them I think the flash is
over now but um era was for the first half of it printed money yeah a lot of the
fandom apparently fell off and so you know that's that's why he was given love
Simon because he they were like yeah you're a TV guy but we'll let you do this
because your your TV stuff is so successful a very different Beast than Ryan
Murphy whereas Ryan Murphy kind of used Glee and kind of to springboard himself
into much more prestigious media like well that's that's Ryan Murphy kind of
worked on a lot of stuff Ryan Murphy really kind of Hit the scene with nip talk
yeah um which kind of that's where producers found out who he was yeah and then
he paired up with Brad falchuk to make uh Glee and then Glee took off into the
stratosphere well that's what I mean like basically flea was kind of very TV it
was very pop and like he kind of used that to make American Horror Story and the
other things which did have a much more level of prestige whereas Greg Burr uh
yeah like American Horror Story was like oh you want to win an Emmy like go to
American Horse whereas Greg brilliant he's much more pop he's much more fluff
and that's not saying derogatory no it's not saying like you know he's good at
what he does like I gave him a glowing compliment earlier like but um so there's
these two kind of uh homos and Hollywood homos um and like there are so many
other creative queer people in Hollywood like why is it just kind of coalesce
around them and uh and Billy Porter that's another one I want to talk about when
we're talking about like queers that are struggling like yeah like Billy Porter
is someone who even the Straits know who Billy Porter is like Billy Porter shows
up at every red carpet and is fabulous beyond belief yeah so even the Straits
know who he is like he said in interviews he can't get cast as straight
characters but he also kick a cast as gay character and like that's really
interesting to me because it kind of feeds into my idea that um Hollywood sees
queerness as a role it sees it as an act and if you are queer then you're not
acting yeah the thing that I've noticed quite a bit is that Hollywood isn't
totally against pushing gay actors but they do seem to have a problem with gay
actors of color yeah uh like Billy Porter for instance and you know like the
cast of Fire Island Fire Island was supposed to be a theatrical release and then
it got shunted over to Hulu and I think if that had been a movie starring a
bunch of white gay actors yeah I part of me thinks it wouldn't have gotten
shunted over to Hulu I will also and it was also much better than Bros and it
should have gone to theaters because it would have made money and then we would
have had a gay success story thank you I also would like to elaborate on that
and say I don't think that Hollywood has much of a memory or ability to remember
more than one or two gay actors whatsoever and that includes lesbians um so it's
kind of one for him one for her um and everyone else can kind of just find their
own kind of like Niche project projects and you know queer Independent films and
um but it's definitely a job being a judge on drag race you know Hollywood you
know is pressured to put diversity in their movies so they find one or two uh uh
actors of these diverse categories they're willing to play by the rules and
everyone else is like okay we filled our spot yeah we filled our position yeah
and it's less it's not as dire when it comes to writers and directors yeah
because you know they're behind the camera their personal lives aren't kind of
scrutinized the way they act they're not the stars or the cameras aren't pointed
to that thing exactly um but then at the same time name a gay director that is a
Spielberg or a Tarantino yeah or a Scorsese or uh Christopher Nolan or like name
a gay director who is in that League I feel like even though it is easier to
sort of get by and there are plenty of gay directors who are very successful
none of them have reached that kind of high iconic Echelon iconic is a good way
to put it yeah and what this is a bit of a difficult thing for and this is where
it's kind of factoring into where it's on your mind because you are starting to
trying to get into directing you do want to reach that level of prestige in
terms of your visuals and you know putting together a story yeah like I would
like like I don't ever expect any movies I make to be like considered in the
league with you know Steven Spielberg or Martin Scorsese or anything like that
but I would like to be able to make movies that look like they could um and the
the thing that worries me there is there is not really a gay template for the
gay director to follow whereas you know you do have the Scorsese the spielbergs
the Christopher Nolans the the tarantinos um that you can kind of look at and be
like or even either there are even a handful of women uh directors you can if
you're a young lady kind of going into film you'll be like I can do I can do it
because she can because she's yeah like I could I could try and be Chloe Zhao or
Catherine Bigelow or if you're like a creator of color there's Ava Duvernay
there's um yeah Ryan coogler there's Jordan peel uh but even then there's less
of those than there are straight white men absolutely but I think there's I I
think people like um Jordan peel and Ryan coogler are far more household names
than name any gay director and with that let's move to our next segment now the
break is over because some of you are watching on patreon or your YouTube
members and you don't have to watch ads so what's the what's our next segment
next uh our next segment is our personal experience with this and how this how
we're staring there in the barrel of this uh the lavender curtain uh yeah I am
calling it that now I I dubbed it um on the record claiming it I I think I think
I I think I have much less anxiety about it than you do so I'll if you don't
mind I'll kind of get my piece out of the way um because like I said at the end
of the last segment I do want to be able to make movies that are considered good
that aren't just gay movies like good for a gay movie kind of thing that's
something I wanted to talk about earlier kind of just the idea that you know
like when it comes to queer creators there's that element of we need to be the
best or we're just gonna be good with the asterisks of for a queer Creator yeah
we have to if we're not Ryan Murphy we're nothing yes um and because I like I
said before I can't think of a gay director that has reached that kind of
top-tier echelon not for some not for some time and you know there are amazing
gay directors out there right now who are doing amazing movies but they are like
they're not consider they're not spoken of in the same words as even B tier
straight white dudes yeah yeah like uh I can never pronounce his name I can
never pronounce his name so I'm not going to because I'm just going to offend
people um but he's uh directing a short film about uh gay cowboys with um yeah
he's a movie about gay cowboys with Pedro Pascal yeah people in gay media are
talking about it nobody else is and he is I think one of the best directors of
his generation Pedro Ahmad davar oh I can't say his last name I'm so sorry but
he's not even spoken of in this with the same reverence as JJ Abrams yeah but
when I go to like a serviceable mid-tier director I always go to guy Richie Guy
Ritchie yeah just because I like he's done some good movies I guess so but
earlier in his career like some of his movies were like actually legitimately
good okay but I like it's been a while was um uh Aladdin right the live action
yeah um like that just so mid especially when there were so many opportunities
inviting a directory live action remake yeah like there are invitations to be
cartoonish in the in these sections because they're based on cartoons yeah but
like like you said there isn't any kind of road map for how to get that sort of
top tier like uh prestigious like yeah like what kind of movie do you need to
make to be considered in that same tier yeah because there are gay directors who
do make movies that are just as good and just as good as far as like production
quality and everything as Martin scorsese's early movies as Spielberg's early
movies yeah the difference is that even though someone is making movies just as
good as Raging Bull or just as good as Mean Streets they're not being given the
money to do Goodfellas they're not being the money to do the The Departed
they're not getting the money to do Jurassic Park or you know Schindler's List
or something that opportunity to you know rise to the challenge when it comes to
uh writing books like of being being an author like there is a little it is what
you are yeah it's a little bit of a different beast and even like uh with me
kind of branching into writing screenplays like that's also a bit of a different
piece where there are kind of um uh gorvadol uh very famous screenwriter um uh
maybe yes he wrote Ben Hur maybe he didn't write Spartacus he did write Ben Hur
and if you watch Ben Hur there's a lot of clear coding in Ben Hur and he put
that in there on purpose to bug Charlton Heston uh so um fabulous Queen um oh
just and a great novelist too one of the greatest um uh orators I was going to
say just greatest uh like deathlines of all time was the best thing that ever
happened to Truman capote's career was his death or dying was the best thing
that ever happened to Truman capote's career um I wish when you could be like
before Joan Crawford is dead good my mother said that when someone dies you
should never say anything bad only good Joan Crawford is dead good that's what
Betty Davis said when she found out Joan Crawford had died uh um you're not
allowed to be [ __ ] like that anymore no it's heartbreaking only drag queens
are allowed to be that [ __ ] now um and only on YouTube so yeah like it's
daunting for me because there are phenomenal queer our uh authors out there uh
what quarrels like of all genders and all sexuality do I say no I was just I was
making fun of people who do but like um and this I think this is a problem with
the publishing industry uh gay men kind of get swept under the rug um yeah like
there's a shelf over here that is filled with books by that are just it's like
half of the wall is books about gay people um the books that you have heard of
are written by women yeah uh women straight women get bisexual women gay women
but they're written by women other than Adam Silvera I can't really think of any
gay male author who writes gay male Centric books where their publisher really
pushed them and with even with Adam I think I think a lot of that was Tick Tock
like I think like it wasn't so much the publisher pushing it as Tick-Tock so
like yeah again like I mentioned part of the thing like I I because I want to
kind of I naturally as someone have Ambitions of kind of imagine having
Ambitions you know being the greatest ever um whether I will or will is another
question but like because I feel like I have this curtain I have to cross the
lavender curtain yeah uh my coin term my term coined uh didn't I say lavender
curtain but no what are you talking about changing history that's the lavender
curtain changing history they were roommates so um because I have that Crossing
like I hold myself to such an immeasurably high standard of kind of like making
sure that the media I create is like the best it can possibly be and it's
crippling and because of that I've had to really begin I really psychologically
reassessed what my career should be um so I'm now kind of like moving away from
like being like high selling to I want to have books that are being remembered
yeah which means I need to put more thought into them which means I can't write
them as fast which means I can't put them put them out as much yeah so like and
that's kind of that's the publishing model these days is volume especially with
self-published authors it's like you the the the the expectation is you're going
to put like three or four books out a year minimum um instead of you know
traditionally published authors or Chad published authors um who you know every
two or three years the book comes out or if you're someone like George R Martin
maybe once a decade me having this channel is probably better than the
overwhelming majority of a lot of other queer authors out even traditionally
published authors yeah uh so I'm really grateful for that and I'm hoping that I
can continue to use that as like a platform and that's something me asking
that's me telling um that's the condition for my employment um the question that
comes back too and it's about like especially because we meant I want to
reiterate that this isn't something that's unique to queer people no um and I
mentioned David Duvernay before like she had Wrinkle in Time that was a flop why
hasn't she worked again since yeah and she has not been given a movie since yeah
like she's whereas this is It's a Salma was like a phenomenally well-regarded
movie like she should have gotten a free pass from that she should have been
she's gotten the best director Oscar nomination for that but like yeah she did
Wrinkle in Time did not do well at all and basically has been blacklisted yeah
and um and it's but it's an open joke right now at Marvel among people who cover
my Marvel that the people writing Marvel movies right now keep getting rehired
even though universally it's agreed that phase four has been a written [ __ ]
show which is unfortunate because you know like there there must be more Talent
well I mean there's also um uh oh I just was just talking about it Jordan
there's also Jordan Peele who a lot of people but Jordan Peele has said and
here's here's a thing that a lot of Hollywood doesn't like about Jordan Peele
they've asked him when are you going to make a white movie and he said I'm not I
believe Toni Morrison got asked the same question and by Barbara Walters I think
um average um I was asked like when are you going to write a white book and she
said like the question is inherently racist because like I'm writing books yeah
like there's no white book there's no black book I'm writing books that speak to
my experiences and books that I think that we need in the world yeah um Jordan
peeler said he's not going to make a white movie yeah um even though he's
including White characters uh like in um in nope I loved that character the the
the editor oh yeah yeah I can't remember his name but he just showed up the
skirt he showed up to film jean jacket in a skirt and nobody had questions like
that's Hollywood um I just love that movie so I love both of his I've only seen
you haven't seen us because yeah you're scared I have been told that it's
scarier it's not I didn't find us scary but it's like one of those kind of like
make you think he movies I didn't find nope to be like that kind of long-term
scary no um I mean some of the visuals still are staying staying with me like
just the inside jean jacket uh people being eaten yeah um then it's just the
crunch yeah but um again like that there's that idea like he makes things that
stick in your head that aren't necessarily scary when you're watching but it's
just like I can't get this out now yeah uh just ideas like I I just loved um get
out so much yeah I love both of the ones that I've seen and it's amazing we
deserve that Oscar like that that was phenomenally written yeah um it makes me
want to see us but I am a scaredy cat so there's a thing that's kind of Bot and
maybe he got offered it maybe he didn't but why was he not direct why is he not
directing blade oh he'd be really good for that I think maybe it's because um he
is fairly artistic and Marvel oh no no not an artistic Marvel doesn't seem to
like that especially after Chloe's out well yeah they were very excited about
Chloe Zhao and then she made an artistic movie and they realized oh artistic
movies aren't mainstream movies oh damn it who's who's um guy who makes me doing
media movies Tyler Perry Tyler Perry like he you know he's another one like Ryan
coogler who's kind of really broke he had to make his own yeah but here's the
thing with Tyler Perry is that Hollywood considers him a joke yes but he has
basically created his own Hollywood yeah and that's the thing why do you have
built his own stuff that's what you kind of have to be in order to succeed as a
Creator outside the hegemony yeah and that's what we're going to be trying to do
with Telos pictures like we're going to try and create you know the gay version
of what Tyler Perry has done yeah so like and that's kind of my solution to uh
James's Quinn term lavender curtain is like you know like bias for us like you
know if they're gonna keep you out make your own moon landing base with
Blackjack and hookers make them like make them sad like it like the BL industry
in Asia like Hollywood wishes they could like well that's the thing like and
that's going to be a video that we get into but like the BL industry is you know
it's mostly written by women but it is an industry an industry that is about
pretty boys kissing each other and it is hugely popular even like in China where
it's like the the Chinese communist government is so homophone they've started
to buckle because it's just they haven't started to buckle but they've started
they they they let some you know there's Coatings that's what I said started to
buckle on it yeah and like in Korea and Taiwan and Thailand Japan BL is hugely
popular yeah and makes a fortune and Hollywood is like it's like the comic books
industry ignoring the fact that manga has been outselling American comic books
for the last decade not just I was telling but take any one like successful
manga it's outselling every Marvel's profits yeah like Marvel Comics prophets DC
Comics because you know if you start reading a comic book it might get canceled
in four issues but if you start reading a manga you're probably gonna have
you're set like volumes upon volume you're probably going to get at least like
eight volumes into that um so like and that's the solution is kind of when you
you feel like like I like I feel like I don't really have a road map to the kind
of success I want to reach yeah um you don't really have a roadmap for the kind
of success you want no like with Telos I'm kind of like there are gay movies
Studios out there that do do like gay movies um but you know they are they're
they're higher budget than what Telos has to work with unfortunately but um they
feel they don't I don't want to say they feel cheap they feel low budget yeah
and my hope is to be able to make movies that look like they weren't shot looked
like they took six months to shoot yeah instead of you know shot in three weeks
yeah and that's the hope and trying to you know Elevate things not that there's
anything wrong with what we have but also kind of just break that the glass
ceiling yeah um and so that's kind of my optimistic ending to that yeah and and
hopefully there is you know optimism out there that you know there although the
Our Generation and the generation coming up and everything we don't really have
the the the the um the road map set out like a lot of CIS hat people do yeah but
maybe we'll not necessarily us but hopefully us but you know people of our
generation will make that road map yeah like in place the Trailblazers basically
yeah and it's I mean like there's a lot of I find people a privilege would put a
lot of pressure in me like oh I want to be a Trailblazer disrupter it's hard it
is hard work to kind of think of yourself as like oh I'm kind of doing something
that you know I don't really have a guide for yeah um and honestly I would
rather not be a Trailblazer I would rather just make good [ __ ] art like yeah
straights we're coming for your jobs uh so I just want to thank Squarespace for
sponsoring this video You're going to hear a lot about Squarespace in the coming
months because they've been very generous with us and uh yeah so that's the end
of the video leave your comments down below like subscribe comment uh ring that
Bell so that YouTube might do what it's supposed to do and actually let you know
when new videos come out just maybe maybe uh and check out our website
jamesumberton.com for blogs and videos that YouTube doesn't want you to watch my
name is James I'm Nick thank you so much for watching we'll be back in a couple
of days with another video [Music] foreign [Music] foreign [Music] okay I'm okay
[Music] [Music] cause I'll see you again [Music] cause I'll see you again