---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/ogpyycnao8"
  - "/videos/-ogPYycNAo8" # front-dash seems to cause issues
  - "/videos/-ogpyycnao8"

date: 2023-06-06
title: The Problem With Pride #ï½œ James Somerton
runtime: 51:43
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20230606+-ogPYycNAo8+The+Problem+With+Pride+%EF%BD%9C+James+Somerton.webm"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-public-records/The+Problem+With+Pride++James+Somerton.mp4"
# description: "a podcast episode on <xyz>."
notes:
  - podcast

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">

[sponsor plug]

[patreon link]
[website link]

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

this video is brought to you by Squarespace hello everyone and welcome to gays
Behaving Badly the YouTube show where we pretend George Santos doesn't exist
because that's the only way we can get through the day my name is James I'm Nick
yeah I was a teenager teenagers you hate your voice crack now when you get older
it's like ah I'm young again uh in today's episode video whatever the hell we
call these things uh we're going to be talking about how Pride kind of sucks
yeah I wanna I wanted to talk about like more of the consequences the unspoken
consequences of Pride being corporate Pride going mainstream yeah because like I
liked when people didn't like us we seem to like each other more when people
didn't like us yeah the gays got along more when we had an enemy so like just
not necessarily talk about the history because that is a big long discussion
there will be a documentary coming from tell us yeah it's funny because we
wanted to make it a video and everyone wanted it to be a video and then we I
tried writing it for Pride last year or the year before and I looked I got like
two paragraphs saying like I like knock knock James um this is big and it is it
does have a title it's called Pride for sale and it will be coming from Telos
pictures uh eventually eventually eventually uh but before we get into the meat
of the video I would like to thank this video's sponsor which is Squarespace
this video is brought to you by Squarespace building a site with Squarespace is
a great way to build your brand and reach a wider audience whether you're a
visual artist photographer writer a video producer or work in any other creative
field it's vital to have a site that you can use to help build your brand on
your own terms Nick and I have had a presence on social media for a while now
and obviously this channel but with certain sites looking like they're going to
go the way of the dodo we thought it about time to make our presence felt away
from the Bird app using squarespace's incredibly intuitive and easy to use tools
we've built the James Summerton YouTube Channel website featuring a Blog where
Nick and I write about topics that probably wouldn't make for a full video like
the movie The Menu the show succession and my rediscovery of anime as well as a
special section where you can read preview chapters of my upcoming novel and
check out Nick's full first novel gentlemen's club and best of all by using
squarespace's video hosting feature we're even able to give you access to videos
that YouTube made us remove you can head to squarespace.com right now for a free
trial and when you're ready to launch your site go to squarespace.com James S
that's j-a-m-e-s-s to save 10 off your first purchase of a website or domain
start showing the world how amazing you are today with Squarespace thank you
Squarespace for being a wonderful sponsor who's been sponsoring a bunch of
videos lately and I hope you continue to sponsor lots of videos in the future um
so let's get into the video proper now uh segment one um let's talk about Pride
let's talk about Pride well pride is a sin it's a sin it's also an incredibly
weird it's not one of those like really harsh bad sins it's the the one of the
seven deadly apex of the seven deadly sins yes it's the bad one yeah and you can
see that element of judeo-christ there's a whole discussion about like Niche and
uh ethics on morality and how he feels about pride and the devaluing of Pride um
and whether that's good or bad and whether that's good or bad depending on which
edit you're reading of him because some of his Works were edited wonder what Ein
Rand would feel about Pride I bet she would love Gay Pride Ein Rand was very
heavily inspired by Nietzsche but it also might have been the version of
Nietzsche that was doctored to make him more palatable to the Nazi party so his
sister could gain favor with them after he died yes and I'm not saying anything
nice about irand no um because we're not going to say anything nice about Pride
either I think Ein Rand would be a fan of Nietzsche and philosophy students like
correct me if I'm wrong but I can almost guarantee you Nietzsche would have
nothing but condemned frying around not for the reasons you think though um he
would have thought she was a pitiful Pretender I mean very much yeah anyway this
is an Iran podcast episode we'll talk about it eventually we will we will talk
about her but for now can we replace the the 10 000 patreon goal with from one
piece to Ein Rand maybe it's 7 500 patrons we will do a feature-length
documentary about Iran because one piece has a lot to do with like you know like
greed and corporatism and militarism like we could incorporate Iran into that
properly the randian-ness of One Piece ten thousand patrons you'll get it okay
all right so talk about Pride let's talk about Pride so first of all first of
all for everyone who's listening the little baby gays who don't know anything
about queer history watch more videos on the channel you'll know but Pride as it
was originally conceived was not you know the happy-go-lucky parade that you
bring your kids to in their strollers and you know people Bop around with
rainbow balloons it was a protest movement uh starter people even say it was a
riot but that's it certainly started as one that's if you're taking
consideration Stonewall the original PR p-r-i-d-e movement which is personal
rights and Defense Education um which occurred a few which was disbanded a few
months before the Stonewall riots actually yeah right at the end of 68 it
stopped uh they not on its own uh provocative group of Rights advocators and
they were very confrontational it was they did not start any riots but they
certainly did protest yeah um and the re-emergence of the pride movement that we
that began the modern movement today it's the second Pride movement I will say
that very much was born out of the riots that came out of the Stonewall uh The
Stonewall rests the modern Pride movement yeah definitely grew at a Stonewall um
and one could earn so it's a fascinating history and the gay rights in the late
60s and early 70s absolutely fascinating yeah because it's it's you would think
that it's really like the Gaze versus The Straits it's like no it's actually the
gays versus the other other case that's that was the war going on in the late
60s early 70s uh and continued honestly to go on for a very long time until this
day probably it started to swing in terms of the the gays that were reverse
reversing the other gays probably that died off you know probably with the 80s
probably yeah I think I think AIDS kind of you know kicked everyone into I'm
trying to explain some people just how much Game Changer AIDS was looking at gay
history before for the 80s and then after but you know pride pride so the
question I want to ask is how can Pride still be a protest because how can
practice be a protest when we ha when pride has corporate sponsors and like we
have corporate sponsors and we are very much we protest a lot yeah um but I so I
would say it's not how how can Pride be a protest when it's financed by Banks
yeah when you go to a pride parade in Canada it is TD Bank everywhere when you
go to the US it's ameribank everywhere really yeah okay yeah yeah I wonder it
was it's not about like corporates it's about when I say corporate I I mean the
hegemony I mean the big money the the elements that are kind of like pulling the
oligarchy oligarchic strings of our not just America but our Western World yeah
like this isn't you know the art our sponsors who are you know relatively
smaller these are like the big Tech big Banks um we're not being sponsored by
like Elon musk's yeah stuff like this this is elements of money that are small
Nations unto themselves oh yeah uh Apple has more money than most countries yes
um so like if Pride needs to be a protest how can it protest when the culture
itself is sponsoring him like the the hegemonistic determining factors of our
culture which are these financial institutions because in our late stage in our
mid to late stage of capitalism that we're in that's kind of how culture
functions yeah and it's it's it's it's it's something that you know I I worked
in marketing for a very long time and we talked about you know every every June
okay how do we appeal to the lgbtq community and even back in business school we
took courses and about different marketing histories and stuff like that and one
of them was specifically in the 1990s the sort of the Power Players of corporate
America specifically Corporate America really realized that gay and lesbian gays
and lesbians especially couples uh who at the time were very very unlikely to
have children but they had dual incomes and on average made more money than
strike couples um because gays and lesbians tended to go into higher income
Fields because there was a a big kind of um I must be better than my Straight
siblings kind of thing um and so I still kind of have that don't worry I don't
the bar is not that hot but um so you know gays and lesbians had a lot of money
and nobody was appealing to them and so a lot of people think that um you know
companies started to Market towards gay people to to be inclusive um that they
would start putting gay people in their advertisements in their commercials and
stuff like that that Disney started doing gay days at Disneyland to you know say
we are inclusive of the the L's and the G's but it was that's not how it worked
so it was specifically we were marketed two we were not appealed to I we were
marketing I would do you one Higher and say that the problem is that not that
the marketing was directed at the gays it's that the gays were used as a
marketing tool to make this Corporation seem palatable to left-leaning interests
and to the gays because they wanted to Gay's money because it wasn't it wasn't
saying like look at us look how inclusive we are it was and like this is actual
history they weren't saying this is how inclusive we are they were saying look
there's two men sitting on a couch in our commercial don't you want to buy our
insurance don't you want to come to Disneyland and it was that kind of thing
because gays and lesbians had lots of money so if we're being oh sorry if we're
being used in this element of the culture and being used as this kind of you
know tool to make this company this Corporation seem palatable um we're being
brought in to the very culture that Pride originally protested against yeah so
going into our next segment because Pride was originally very much pushing back
against the Strait of Gemini and the CIS had hegemony kind of saying like we
don't need to fit into your boxes but you know in the early 90s the the gays
that because not all gays and lesbians had a lot of money no but the ones that
did had a lot they they had a lot and they played the game they played the
corporate game they worked in the corporate offices you know they were doctors
and lawyers and business people and CEO not so much CEOs but you know they had
they had money um and they had that because they were already existing within a
conservative frame of mind because you know at least that fiscal conservative
where it's like I want low taxes but I want to feel like a good person and not
not just that but kind of like you know the the ones the gays that wouldn't set
off your gaydar kind of thing the ones who passed yeah but you know we we're
getting a lot about you know Fringe elements of queer Society who are being
pressured to pass yeah and so it was that kind of gay and they were the ones
being appealed to and that is when gay pride started to become very mainstream
and the parades started to become a thing that was on The Daily News that wasn't
like look at the freaks it was more like look at the happy people look how much
they want to get married and that started in the 90s and it was because
Corporate America decided there's money over there in them Hills and we're not
getting any of it yet so the question is like if as we are being brought into
the culture and being used as an element of the culture if the culture is still
oppressing Us in some way how do we make pride of protests when pride is part of
the hegemonistic culture well yeah how do you protest the culture when the
culture sponsors you specifically the question we need to ask before that is is
there anything worth protesting right now is there anything worth protesting I
don't know stay tuned and we're back from an advertisement from probably
Corporate America um let us know if it's Christian Ringle oh some oh some of the
ones man I love hearing about throwing these videos they're sometimes they're
hilarious um but yeah what like it is it worth PR is it worth the L's the G's
the B's the t's The Q's is it worth flipping the pride table once again to say
like no we deserve stuff yeah like yeah a party we um party's great when you
celebrate the things that you're winning but we're losing an awful lot right now
worth you know sitting John Kent down and letting him know that no Pride does
still need to not be a party John Kent yeah Superman's son oh the one who in the
last uh Pride as you for DC kind of said I know that Pride was a protest at one
point but now it's just a party it's like little baby queer sit down right down
you're literally a Superman a white Superman who lives in the penthouse in an
analogy for you know New York City New York City like sit down yeah sit your ass
down boy but yeah so what is worth protesting now and a couple of years ago I
would have said not much my biggest point was employment non-discrimination
employee that was my big one I still think we should have fought for employment
non-discrimination before marriage lots of people disagree with me and that's
perfect and that's not saying that marriage isn't important but in terms of
priorities like I feel like employment on discrimination needs to be Paramount
you you need your bottom line because in the America that exists today in
certain States you can get married on Friday and then uh fired on Monday for
getting Gary gay married um so a couple of years ago I would have said you know
not much except that and you know move out of those States but now it doesn't
seem to matter where you live unless you live in California or New York State
somebody is coming for you yeah I feel it's like a genie out of the bottle
situation where when people discovered that hating specifically trans people and
now also non-binary people was an option that oh I have someone to hate awesome
like well yeah because it kind of was like they lost the war for gay marriage
and they were like [Â __Â ] and then it became well we gotta hate somebody yeah
and then the trans bathroom issue became a thing which never should have been an
issue to begin with it never had been a thing historically it's a it's a it's a
it's spoken mirrors and it's it's brilliant I if I can find the clip I'll put it
in um a young trans man uh went to a a town hall with a conservative Governor I
think uh Republican governor and said look at me I am a transgender man do you
really think that the girls in my high school would feel comfortable sharing a
restroom with me and the governor just swam around in circles to not answer that
question yes because it's like yeah do you want him in the bathroom with your
daughter because they here's the thing here's here's one of the things that
drives me nuts is the trans male Erasure that happens with it they never think
of the men that you're putting into the women's bathroom they're always thinking
about the trans women being in women's bathrooms and it's like there's this is a
two-way street and I know you're uncomfortable with this get over it yeah um
you're gonna be a whole lot more uncomfortable with some of the trans guys I
know or a hell of a lot more Butch than most of the straight guys like
immediately after like straight guys the bathroom debate after the bathroom
debate started becoming a thing um immediately within like two weeks there were
CIS girls being beat up and went from from being because they were a bunch
because they were bought they're taught they were tomboys yeah um just
everything around this gender debate is completely out of proportion the trans
people amount to about one percent of the population if that yeah it is not
enough percent of the population for anyone to get their knickers and not about
and that's the thing that's the thing that's the thing that conservatives and
Republicans because some conservatives are not bad on this I'm not trying to say
like like because there aren't many of them it's not important I'm saying the
opposite is like because there aren't a whole lot of Trends and genderness we
should care about what they do um but the thing is is that uh Arch conservatives
will say they are really good at finding a section of the population that's very
tiny that really does not impact the rest of the population whatsoever but
they're different enough to stand out yeah and so even though they're this tiny
little group you can make them seem massive and you know like in the UK it
happens it's been happening all the time where they've been saying well there's
you know eight thousand percent more trans people now than there was ten years
ago and it's like yeah that means there's like 800 more trans people than there
were 10 years ago calm down like most trans people in the past did not
officially publicly or whatever transition well there was no legal yeah they did
it without a doctor they diy'd it a lot of people got hurt because they were
diying it which fed into statistics about oh hormones destroy your body it's
like yes because they couldn't get legal access to in order to stem dysphoria I
think that was that was dealt with on pose like people having to use illegal
hormones and do illegal feminization surgery and stuff like that like yeah when
that happens it's scary like let's make that not happen it's like backroom
abortions like Barbara from the suburbs will do anything to make her tits left
half an inch but like they really should understand why someone who has the
wrong body and the links they will go away go to to feel comfortable in their
own body um and yes why is it so goddamn okay for CIS people to go and have all
the the tit lifts and the butt lifts and the liposuction and the dick extensions
and the the I saw I saw a man who had his like face additions like the late
full-on Lady Gaga Born This Way era like you know um augmentations like on like
like kind of piping within his arm to kind of make him look alien like his eyes
were dot he had tattoos in his eyes to make him look dark his tongue was split
bottom lip kind of like split and bottom there and he was discussing uh a way to
get uh his penis split into so we could have a Hemi penis to be more freakish
doctors sign off on that I guess but meanwhile you know people want to look
people wanna you know ubu yeah body augmentation surgery I want ubu I am a tried
and true monster I'm kind of into that so like so many beeping I'm gonna have to
do in this episode have you been beeping that much I don't think so well [Music]
um the night is young yeah so it's probably not acceptable that man probably
faces a lot of kind of weird looks oh it must be a horrible time for him at the
same time there is which is a horrible you know about society that we would just
look at someone and say no I mean with the procedures he's getting he probably
has a money money as it is yeah cause any that [Â __Â ] ain't cheap yeah so on a
level of he's not being broadcast on CNN he's not being broadcast on Fox News
there are no one protesting his existence like yeah there I mean yeah there's a
dichotomy there there is a very weird dichotomy there um Elon Musk has had more
gender confirming surgery than most uh trans people um how many times does he
has his scalp replaced uh I want to know where he keeps getting new Scouts how
many Tesla employees are just running around bald now because Elon snatched
their and weave at the assembly line so yeah um that's on the table in terms of
just not only the political persecution you know there's because that's a thing
but also just the social persecution of that uh we're also no now going through
another round of book Bannings and book burnings that have a weird way of you
know they're targeted at you know you know I don't even know what the
justification is anymore oh it's everything it's everything it's oh the it's it
like because like it's like there's this this book says that being black is okay
so we're gonna be in that yeah this book says that maybe we should do
reparations for slavery so we're gonna ban that this book says that immigration
is okay if you're not white we don't want that around uh this book says it's
okay to be gay or lesbian or trans or non-binary this book says not even that
but this book implies that and it's like [Â __Â ] Mark Twain or something sorry
another beep another beep um this book was written by Margaret Atwood so we're
gonna throw this one out like it's just and even then I saw like some of the
lists are like egregiously misinterpreting what's the theme of these books
actually are yeah um in a lot of cases it's like no this book is isn't pushing
an agenda this book is just a book yeah so that's fun to have like when it's
just burning books because they don't align with like this weird Christian Pop
thing like and a lot of this I mean I know drag queens are being banned like yes
yes and we're going to get to that in a second sorry um but the all of this
seems to be happening I mean it's happening all over the US it's happening in
England like it's not it's not it's not restricted to one area of the globe yeah
but it's very it seems to be radiating out of America's dick that is Florida and
like Rhonda Sanchez is like I'm going to become the Republican nominee by out
trumping Trump yeah and I I want to like take him by the head and say Ron at
least Trump is a liar but at least when he started running for president he said
that Caitlyn Jenner could use any bathroom she wanted in any of his buildings
but you know that's how he started his campaign but you know I want to credit
Beyonce and he completely went and lied through his teeth but in her current
Tour all the bathrooms on Beyonce tour this tour um are gender neutral everyone
good good for her yeah I didn't know she was touring um well she this is the
Renaissance tour okay but like it it so it's just like you're trying to out
Trump trump by being a bigger [Â __Â ] and all that's really accomplished is
pissing off Disney yeah you know what company you don't piss off Disney they
have lawyers that will come for you and they will find you and like 18 pieces
six months later honestly Iowa different Disney characters stamped on different
parts of your body I would know it'll be DreamWorks character to hide their
tracks [Laughter] I'd like to see a battle between Disney and Apple I think
honestly I think that being an apple why why wasn't he an apple against each
other no this is hypothetically because like they are renowned for having like
complete savagery in their legal practices oh yeah so like I think lawyers
honestly I think that would start a corporate War well like like an open guns a
lot of Disney yeah because because of Steve Jobs and Pixar and all that stuff so
that'd be that that would be difficult but apple and Disney are notoriously
granted the UK owned a lot of America that's true until they didn't but you know
apple and Disney are you know woke companies they're also two of the richest
companies in the world um the richest companies in the world are whoa it's
hilarious the broke uh go go go go broke campaign and yet that you know doesn't
yeah all that equates to is people buying products to smash uh but we're gonna
take another commercial break and then we're gonna come back and we're gonna
talk about something else that's growing out of Florida like a growth on a gross
thing so yeah we'll be right back and we're back but if you're a patron we
didn't really go anywhere um so the the other thing that's kind of grew out of
Florida but has kind of it's gone all over the US and England is the groomer
thing which has turned in we know where the groomer language started I I don't
personally I'm I'm sure that well of course like the thing about grammar is that
this was the exact language that was used to describe Us in the agent late 1800s
and the 1970s 50s 1960s 1970s yeah it was always the gays are coming for your
kids and then it was oh we can't go after the gays because everyone has decided
that the gays are okay because the gay marriage Etc so we're going after the
trans people uh we're going after them oh and we're going after the non-binaries
because they're even weirder go ahead yeah so it was kind of then it started
they started seeing it work against trans people and they were like ooh I hadn't
made that connection yet yeah they said it wasn't until they started it started
working against trans people and their group like specific language they are
grooming teenagers to become trans so we need to increase their the age in which
you can legally transition and then when that started and then they were like oh
this is working so then they started going after drag queens because that was
you know it's kind of like being trans to them in real life it's not but to them
it's basically being trans but then because so many gay men are well not so so
many drag queens are gay men it became oh well if it's drag queens it's gay men
too yeah and then everybody started getting locked in and then you know lapping
in the lesbians because of course which is exactly what we said would happen
yeah we said that and then gays were like they're not coming like we is in like
trans people non-binary people kind of looking at the those systems with the
brain the the more privileged elements of the queer Community typically the
white gay and lesbian people saying like this isn't going to stop stop with
calling us groomers they are going to Loop you in with this regardless and they
were like no if we just just distance ourselves from you they will keep us that
they will you're saying that the privileged one said yeah we just need to
distance yeah if we just distance ourselves when you if we demonstrate that
we're not with you then we'll be safe so the privileged gays and lesbians did
say if we just distance ourselves from trans people and non-binary people and
drag queens they're not going to come for us because they'll know that we're the
good ones the George Santos is of the world he doesn't exist but what ended up
happening of course although he did do drag what ended up happening of course
are pretty as a drag queen uh it doesn't exist doesn't exist uh but of course
what ended up happening when trans people and you know queer people with any
amount of brain matter yeah said no no we've seen this brain matter historical
reference like this has happened the poem first they came for the the Communists
to the unionists or the I think it's I think it started with bankers and then
Communists and then business owners well no it was first they came for I think
it was first they came for the Jews and then they came for the the union leaders
and then they came for the Communists and when it was only me left there was no
one left to fight for me yeah yeah I can't remember it I'm so sorry I can't
remember the exact quote but it was that all over again only within the queer
Community something they had had their way there would be no one left to fight
the fight now that they are coming for you know the CIS gays and lesbians and
this is the thing because the thing is our trans brothers and sisters and others
siblings siblings siblings are made of tougher stuff than most of us and so
they're still around to fight the fight because they're not giving up just
because they've been put through Hell by these [Â __Â ] they've got a taste of
acceptance and I'm glad they did because they know that trans people okay yeah
yeah yeah um not the acceptance that they need to be functional human beings on
a larger scale well they're functional human beings but it's like not the
acceptance they need for yeah I'm using I'm sorry I'm using very oh my thinker
isn't working my finger's malfunctioning it's not the um it's like the
acceptance that they need to get the kind of absolutely the kind of
self-actualization that we take that a lot of the privileged elements of society
take for granted yeah and you know so they trans people kind of it was with uh
the the trans Tipping Point issue on variety I think it was um I think it might
have been variety or The Hollywood Reporter um or maybe it was maybe it was
Vanity Fair it doesn't matter yeah it doesn't matter um Laverne Cox was on the
cover and she was the first trans woman to be put on the cover of a major
magazine I thought Caitlyn Jenner no no no no no no before he does not get that
credit okay um do not take that away from Laverne Cox no no yeah um but I just I
thought that was kind of like a sad thing like oh it should have been it should
have been and it was this it was this moment of oh Trans people are actually you
know getting accepted now not just being written off as Freaks and then you know
the arch conservatives Among Us saw that and instead of looking at that magazine
and saying Laverne Cox seems like a really nice lady they looked at it and they
were like this is a target yeah we have a new Target because they unite
themselves through hatred they unite themselves through having something to hate
and in a large part this and for the longest time you may wonder and I certainly
did why these people are so invested on needing someone to hate why do we need
to bully people into this very rockwellian American rockwellian even for British
standards whatever the British standards of rockwellian is or the Europeans and
it's Rockwell that idea that there is a nice polite society and a correct way of
living and a correct way of being and this is how people should exist um and
badgering people into that box why are we so obsessed with doing this and it's
because and who's driving this yeah and it's because that sells yeah if people
are in these boxes then people who sell them things know how to sell them these
things yes they know how to tell them what they need to buy the whole concept of
keeping up with the Joneses your next-door neighbors the Joneses get a new
dishwasher you want a new dishwasher and that's the thing that's going on and
has been going on with pride for a while is that you know certain segments of
the queer Community are kind of like not excommunicated but like oh we hope they
don't show up because they don't fit in or specifically we're told not to show
up yeah but they're never told to not show up by the banks no they're told to
show up by the queers oh who do you think by the queers who you know they don't
the let's say Suburban queers and you know they like that pride is being
financed by Banks because that means they're being accepted you think for a
second that the banks don't have a specific liaison to contact to contact the
organizers of Pride festivals I know they do they have that on speed dial that's
on their favorite five okay like I worked in marketing like I think they have a
family plan it's like no money for calling like they have them locked down um
and I I worked for a pride organization and I saw the conflict that went on with
the people who honestly wanted to make this an advocacy thing and who didn't
want to have Bank advertising everywhere but it's like what are those things
sitting on the ticket counter those are little money boxes the little piggy bank
things for with the bank logo on them why are they there it's like and it's like
they're not pays for everything they're not bad people they're very smart people
they know exactly what's going on but they have the pride organizers the banks
The Pride organizers they know exactly what's happening yeah and being there I
saw some of them they really hated it they really hated that they had to sell
their soul and in a poetic context in order to get a little bit what they want
in order to have the funding they need to put on the party to get enough money
to cover the costs in order to get their their talking segments that nobody who
attended yeah um to get their discussion about like issues within the queer
community and get these out there and get talking about them and push boundaries
having like speakers speakers come in who could talk about being queer in a
person of color being here and disabled yes talk about they had to give the
banks what they wanted in order to actually have these important but because
like but because the Straits weren't showing up for that the strikes were
showing up for you know Katya to come but there is we love Katya but we love
Katja there is so much pressure for these festivals to turn a buck yeah um so
that the sponsors can get their you know funding back they must be profitable
it's not even that so the sponsors can get their money back because the sponsors
that's that's advertising oh yeah it's marketing it's and it's it's cheap I
don't know what the actual figures are but I'm sure that like in New York City
it's more expensive to have a pride in New York but I I bet you for anything
buying a a float in a pride parade is cheap probably the most efficient
marketing dollars you can spend I would not doubt you uh having your logo on a
on a coffee cup is probably more expense because I will this is one thing I've
got to say about the queer community if you are a company and I don't know
exactly what the exact numbers are I did not poke my thing my nose in any
ledgers but from hearing people talk about how I know how much it was to do like
certain smaller cities in Canada and it was cheap um but that is one thing that
I will say about the queer Community when a company when an organization gets
the queers on their side we are dedicated the queers will go every year on a
Disney cruise gays are dedicated customers whether that is to a brand or a
Singer TV shows we we don't stop until it goes away and the gays have still not
bought Russian vodka again boycotting Russian vodka before it was cool we are
dedicated consumers and so they know okay if we're gonna spend you know five
thousand dollars on this float in this pride parade and now all this these
hundred thousand people who love the gays they now see us as supporting gays we
now have a hundred thousand customers and it only cost them five grand to do it
that is pennies compared to what it would be for like a television advertisement
in order to cover the costs of Pride to put on the festival that the sponsors
Express expect that the people expect to break to Dragon drag queens from across
the world like if you're even in a small town and you have your town is big
enough to have a pride festival you're gonna have at least one girl from drag
race really because they will find the money to get that one girl from drag race
you might not have anything else you might have a parade and one drag show and
that's all you get but you're getting a drag race girl and because and you know
power to them like girls get the money but The Pride organizations look at it as
we need to bring in this person because then you know if we have a drag race
Queen even if they got eliminated first uh if we have her Miss vangie man vangie
um if we have her people will come in and people will spend money and if they're
spending money at our pride event more sponsors will come in next year and it'll
just keep the ball rolling and that is capitalism yeah and that is the kind of
the problem is that but how do you disconnect Pride the need for it to be how do
you disconnect the need for it to be a party as per its corporate connections
with the fact that corporations don't want to protest no they want a party yeah
they want to party because parties can make money when you have a party you can
set up vodka stands you can set up drink tables you can sell drink tickets you
can get people excited you can get you can sell tickets you can't get people in
to talk people don't want to hear about sad stuff I remember once there was a
trans woman who stole the stage at Stonewall during a pride month and she got
booed off she started talking about I remember that Brand's problems because
that was a pride year that it was just not discussed and lo and behold the next
year was the year that bathroom that the bathroom debate started happening yeah
um you know there's a uh there's a there's a tweet that kind of spurred me to
want to talk about this it was a uh James is going to put it up but it says for
pride month this year can straight people focus Less on Love Is Love and more on
queer and trans people are in danger because it's true but we can't talk about
that because people don't spend money when they're sad or concerned people spend
money when they're happy they're not going to spend money to finance a protest
against anything anything they're not going to spend money to finance a protest
against anything anything at all so it can't be a protest anymore Pride can't be
a protest because pride has become corporatized and it's not that Pride itself
needs to turn a profit Pride itself needs to make break even so that it can
exist next year yeah it needs the sponsors and so Pride as a party cannot
coexist cannot really exist as it should when the queer community in any given
country where this Pride Celebration is happening is under assault and you know
if you live in in San Francisco you're probably like what assault we're fine if
you have a house or an apartment you're not living on the street but because
yeah and God for we talk about queer homelessness oh but you know if you live in
a place that is very very Progressive very open-minded toward queer issues you
might think that you know yay Pride Celebration your pride celebration in
Manhattan in San Francisco in Seattle in Toronto in Montreal they need to be
protests just as much as a pride festival that happens in in Dayton Florida
because like these Urban centers represent some of the largest voting bodies in
in on this continent well it's not even about voting it's not about voting like
in my opinion it's not about voting it's about messaging yeah you need to show
that okay it's not just the game because it's not even showing you know Ron
desantes that people in New York hate him because he doesn't give a damn about
people in New York it shows the public no okay it shows people it shows the
trans teenager in Florida who has just been told if your parents even take you
out of state so that you can go on hormones you're going in the system and your
parents are going in jail yeah it shows that that it shows that that teenager
that there are people all across this country who give a [Â __Â ] about you yeah
they actually care about you they are willing to give up their party so that
they can show you that you matter okay yeah that means I like that I hadn't
thought about that my angle is uh I do like that yeah so my angle is that the
idea of a protest isn't to sort of spread that kind of advocacy the idea of a
protest is to let the general people know that you know this group of people is
suffering you know you protest a show like hey this is an injustice against me I
need to let people know this by making Pride a party you're telling these kind
of left-leaning progressive loving set not not necessarily Progressive but sort
of very centrists the left-leaning who want to do good things but maybe you're a
little bit fiscally preservative the Hillary Rodham the the you're reinforcing
the idea to them these you know like I said the largest voter blocks in America
are in urban centers those are where most of the voters come from those are the
where most of the voting people come from and they usually lean towards them but
America's voting is so messed up that 20 like 100 million people in California
there's not 100 the idea in California but 100 million people in California
could vote against the Republicans but then they could still win most of the
population lives in urban centers so that's where you're going to get the
largest sort of message to and these Urban centers are more the thing is though
like the the the the the kid the the queer kid in you know Idaho with the the
homophobic or transphobic parents can't afford to move to San Francisco I'm not
saying that I'm saying that by presenting the idea of a protest to these people
to these straight people in these Urban centers is going to remind them that
it's not all you know roses and sunshine for the queer Community yeah whereas
literally it's not all right yes which is going to in not all rainbows is a good
idea for like a non-fiction book like a book of message or something I've always
bet the non-fiction writing we'll reinforce the idea that it's not all all roses
not all rainbows and sort of influence them to make decisions in the legislation
they want to see their representatives push onto into their politics yeah which
will be less targeted towards trans people which will force some sort of
nationalistic sort of Standards like that's my kind of thought process but like
a bigger picture um and absolutely you're right that kind of reinforces
reinforcing these messages of solidarity is super important for individuals but
in terms of like actually changing minds and developing the kind of change we
want to see in order to happen to get these protections I think it's absolutely
important to continue demonstrating elements of protest at a Centrist population
that is comfortable with the idea of I want to support queer people I don't see
suffering queer people I don't know how queer people are suffering therefore I
think everything's fine and I have those people in my life who have had to
explain like no there is so like we need these kind of so what you're saying I
think we're very much in agreement oh yeah absolutely let's do two different
angles but we're yeah absolutely we need the New York news Market to cover you
know the pride parade because then the whole country sees it yeah there needs to
be an urban interest in these things rather than a Centrist dismissal that
everything's fine because my pride festival is a party and those gays look
pretty happy yeah like like the average those those ripped gay boys are having a
great time everything must be fine those Georges and marthas need to be aware
that things aren't all okay and they need to be aware of the severity to which
things aren't all okay even if things are okay in their neighborhood yeah and
and that's because the gays that live in their neighborhood is are probably
doing fine yes absolutely but you know drive an hour away and I bet you can find
a whole lot of queer people who are not doing it conversion therapy is still
legal in a lot of States as far as I'm aware yes and specifically in the UK they
wanted to bet they put they did not pass a ban on conversion therapy a national
UK ban on conversion therapy because the lawmakers refused to make an exception
to include trans people yeah that they refused to say no you can't you can't
conversion therapy anyone and uh opponents were like uh no it needs to say you
can't you can you can conversion therapy trans people yeah but and and they were
that refused to get added so the band just got thrown out and there's and
there's people who would consider themselves very Progressive people who you
know are very much in favor of gay marriage of gay you know gays having kids you
know gay books in schools all that kind of stuff but then they hear about like
oh this 16 year old is trans and they're like oh and it makes them uncomfortable
and I I don't think it comes from a place of malice I think it's no it's it's
ignorance yeah ignorance and so we need to educate them but at the same time
it's like that's that's what this whole channel is about because I hate the idea
of trans people feeling like they need to educate the ignorant yeah and like I I
am a white cisgender gay but passing for straight most times person passing
frustration until you talk about musical theater or Sex in the City [Laughter]
and so you know when I make videos talking about trans rights and the rights of
non-binary and genderqueer people that's why I do it because I'm like you know
I'm not the best messenger but the thing about that is um yes there are some
things that people need to advocate for themselves and I don't like advocating
for everything that anything that I haven't seen someone strongly advocate for
in a context of many people sort of chiming in on this um and I always sort of
lean towards inclusion or even if it's you know something I'm not familiar on
it's like let's include people because there's no harm including people there's
never any harm include including people um so but even then one of the most
significant things a transfer never said to me is that it's really important
that someone who isn't trans can see me that I that I feel seen by someone who
isn't trans that it's not just a matter of like visibility in the trans
Community stays in the trans Community like I you know I I he turned my opinion
on that I think it's important that people from outside of certain communities
acknowledge and respect that these communities exist and they have their own
cultures and their own absolutely but I don't what I'm sort of saying is I don't
think oh yeah I'm agreeing with you absolutely oh yeah yeah um just to clarify I
don't think trans people should be required to educate CIS people it's
exhausting being like yeah like trans people should be allowed to just exist and
you know and if you don't want to explain sort of trans queer theory that that's
on you if you want to by all means but you shouldn't be called to do that yeah
you shouldn't be forced to yeah but that's that's not what we're talking about
how Pride was a riot and now it thinks it's a party there needs to be something
to draw the people's attention to the matter at hand of the matter at hand is
that we are still in danger yes that everyone in the queer Community whether
they are gay or lesbian or bisexual or trans or non-binary or pansexual or
genderqueer we are all in danger because whether you know it or not no matter
how much privilege you have no matter the high mountain that you think you live
on with your you know your your gated community and you think the world can't
come and get you and you see people on the news saying you know these trans
people have been murdered or there's a new bill Banning trans kids from existing
and you think well that's not me you need to add on to that yet