---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/s8iv9xzw87i"

date: 2022-10-09
title: Queer Representation in Modern Horror
runtime: 57:42
status: Auto
aka: !!seq
  - "The Queerness of Modern Horror Cinema"
  - "Fear The Queer (Thumbnail)"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-public-records/Queer+Representation+in+Modern+Horror.mp4"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03/20221009+s8Iv9xzW87I+Queer+Representation+in+Modern+Horror.webm"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup/James+Somerton/James+Somerton+-+Queer+Representation+in+Modern+Horror.mp4"
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - hbomb

contributors:
  downloaded: $cite$TerraJRiley
  citation-plus: $ref$lvence$https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQ6QAGzhovwRWqhvTU5uAskFFLnlsXxvygZ0z8g1Z919BWb3BPtJGO7ZaIv4vRyGsYON6_W1hhNWk1A/pub
  citation: 
    - "[/u/francistimestwo](https://www.reddit.com/r/hbomberguy/comments/18a50c1/comment/kcaaf2k)"

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
    gary_ryan: { color: 1, short: "Chucky (Ryan, 2021)", full: "Ryan, G. (2021, Dec 9). <em>“Kill the twink!”: how ‘Chucky’ cements the murderous doll’s legacy as a queer ally</em> [Article].", url: "https://www.nme.com/features/opinion/chucky-tv-series-queer-ally-3111995" }
    sasha_geffen: { color: 2, short: "(Geffen, 2018)", full: "Geffen, S. (2018, Aug 21). <em>Trans Horror Stories and Society's Fear of the Transmasculine Body</em> [Article].", url: "https://www.them.us/story/transmasculine-horror-stories" }
    abigail_waldron: { color: 3, short: "(Waldron, 2022)", full: "Waldron, A. (2022, Aug 17). <em>Queer Screams: A History of LGBTQ+ Survival Through the Lens of American Horror Cinema</em> [Book].", url: "", type: "book", style: "book" }
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">

Horror movies have been getting queerer in the new millennium.  
[patreon link]

#horrorstories #movies #gay 

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="03:56" for="Part One - The Monsters Are Real" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="11:23" for="Part Two - The Evolution of Tolerance" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="19:06" for="Chapter Three - Laugh Yourself To Death" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="24:32" for="Chapter Four - Horror Becomes Real" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="29:32" for="Chapter Five - All About The Dolls" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="37:02" for="Chapter Six - We’re All The Final Girl" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="45:24" for="Chapter Seven - Horrific Transitions" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="52:04" for="Chapter Eight - They Always Get Up" %}  

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

at the 1984 Democratic National Convention Bobby Campbell a prominent AIDS
activist argued for a presidential candidate who would actually address the AIDS
crisis unlike the Reagan Administration whose mandate regarding the growing
pandemic was to look pretty and do as little as possible in Campbell's speech he
discussed the need for diverse representation of queer people in Media I have a
message for the nation very often lesbians and gay men are portrayed as isolated
alienated and alone or else in a pathetic search for desperate sexuality I don't
think that that's true and I think that it's important for people to understand
that lesbians and gay men do not exist outside of a context we exist in the
context of the people we love and those that love us Campbell's demand for more
stories that truly represent the queer experience as human experience has oddly
taken hold most strongly within the horror genre in one way or another despite
their focus on pain and suffering horror films explore a wide range of human
fears often these fears are projections of mass societal anxieties that touch
upon politics psychology sociology and relationships between vastly different
life experiences the horror genre consistently mirrors the concerns and fears of
society as a whole Invasion of the Body Snatchers depicts the apprehension of
the 1950s regarding an alien or foreign Invasion the hunger and Fright Night
portray the infectiousness of queer culture in the 1980s and the final moments
of Night of the Living Dead shed light on the racism of the 1960s and
Cloverfield depicted the apprehension of a societal Apocalypse in the wake of
September the 11th horror utilizes the Fantastic to develop the internal fears
of these and countless other periods thereby extrapolating their shared
realities I've tried to look at how horror affects us over the last couple of
years first with a look at the history of queer representation and Horror in my
video monsters in the closet then as society's Fear of Everything queer and
different in deep cuts and then last year I looked at how we queer people will
let monsters into our lives because we think we deserve nothing better this has
become a sort of tradition for me every October a tradition I have all too much
fun digging my teeth into and this year is no different but instead of looking
at how horror is queer-coded let's actually take a look at horror from a truly
queer perspective queer creators queer characters queer monsters and something
that Hollywood so very rarely deigns to give us queer Heroes [Music] [Music]
[Music] [Music] [Music] thank you [Music] I spoke about The Silence of the Lambs
all the way back in monsters in the closet and touched again on it briefly and
fear-coded so I feel it is best to start with something that happened right
after the release of the film The revelation of a truly horrific queer monster
that was all too real Jeffrey Dahmer Dahmer was a gay serial killer with a
penchant for pedophilia he frequently abducted young men and boys from gay bars
raped and murdered them and then used their bodies in gruesome medical
experiments he'd admit that he was trying to make sex zombies out of the bodies
he dismembered and experimented on so that they'd fulfill his sexual needs and
never leave his side Dahmer said he drugged and raped the men then drilled holes
into their brains and injected chemicals to turn them into mute zombie sex
slaves after his victims passed on he would do anything from keeping their body
parts as souvenirs to engaging in necrophilia to even eating them unfortunately
the police largely rejected the evidence of gay survivors and their families
after Dahmer murdered 17 men and boys most of whom were young men of color in
May of 1991 police found one victim a 14 year old walking the streets naked and
still confused from Dahmer's drugging he had fled from Dahmer's apartment Dahmer
told the authorities that the young man was his boyfriend and asked that he'd be
returned to his care the cops complied and Dahmer killed the boy shortly
thereafter in 1991 when Jeffrey Dahmer was in the news and Buffalo Bill was in
theaters the public received a barrage of messaging claiming that homosexual
serial killers were widespread in the United States and often connected to
pedophilia the notoriety of serial killers like Jeffrey Dahmer and John Wayne
Gacy before him along with the media's unrelenting focus on them contributed to
the stereotype that all gay men were perverts while heterosexual serial killers
Like Richard Ramirez and Ted Bundy were rarely categorized as such and their
sexual orientation was rarely the focus of public attention unless it was women
throwing themselves at Ted Bundy one source of violence against LGBT individuals
is The Stereotype that they're more likely to engage in violent Behavior due to
their malicious sexuality in addition the Casual homophobia of 1980s films and
toxic masculinity portrayed therein contributed to the violence against queer
people in the 1990s and afterwards Nightbreed directed by Clive Barker explores
the formation of a queer family as a means of safety from the violence of the
outside world Clive Barker a pioneering openly gay author and filmmaker encodes
almost all of his works with queer themes after being duped by his psychiatrist
into thinking that he's a serial killer our protagonist seeks Solace among the
Nightbreed a group of outcast creatures who dwell in a deserted Cemetery for
protection from the rest of society can anyone watch Nightbreed and not
automatically associate the titular characters with queer people asks Trace
Thurman co-host of the horror queers podcast they've been Outcast by society and
are deemed as dangerous by the normal people the climax of the film culminates
in an assault on the nightbreed's home base of Midian as the normies would
rather kill all of them as opposed to understand them sound familiar queer
undertones are a vital part of Nightbreed rather than risk the anger of
respectable citizens the film's monsters retreated into their own Enclave the
normies want to hurt and kill everyone who is different from them the monsters
who were othered because of their looks came together to establish Midian and
their own other queer family the creatures of night breeds Midian were very much
present in the 1990s American reality we monsters knew we had to stick together
to avoid being victims of regular people's aggression and to look out for each
other in case one of them was attacked not surprisingly anti-queer and
transphobic violence continued to be a problem throughout the 1990s with two of
the most high profile killings of the time that of Brandon Tina in 1993 and that
of Matthew Shepard in 1998 acting as sort of horrific bookends that saw the
American government first Embrace queer people well at least gay people and then
throw us under the bus for political expediency but in the fictions of the big
screen queer writers and directors have had much more of a say in what happens
than in real life since the 1930s such creators have been at the Forefront of
the horror genre but that doesn't mean they always have the LGBT community's
best interests at heart Kevin Williamson who penned the faculty and scream came
out as gay to his family and friends in 1992. unfortunately the character of
stokely's betrayal and the faculty perpetuates the Trope of the butch lesbian
who after meeting the right boy suddenly becomes comfortable with her own
femininity but is that Williamson's fault queer filmmakers especially queer
screenwriters will have their work relentlessly scrutinized by Executives for
markers of queer sexuality as queerness has been suppressed or portrayed as evil
for decades a lot of pressure gets put on gay artists to fix the queer image
when it really should be shared more evenly with their straight and cisgender
contemporaries however queer authors and filmmakers of the genre have an
opportunity to give audiences a peek into and through the queer lens and to
create characters that are not Odes to the repeated stereotypes that have
plagued gay characters for most of Cinema history but we queers had some reason
to hope that perhaps we wouldn't be straight washed out of horror Cinema anymore
with the character of David from the Bride of Chucky an out gay character who
isn't tragic or the butt of a joke he's killed on screen of course but not by
our Plucky team of Serial killing dolls Chucky and Tiffany instead he
accidentally steps in front of a semi and gets liquefied on the highway he's not
killed because he's gay but because he wasn't watching where he was going and so
the 1990s ended on a hopeful note for queer visibility in the horror genre sadly
the queer Persona is created for the horror spoofs that swamped the box office
in the 2000s would derail this ambition due to the widespread coverage of
falling and broken bodies from the World Trade Center attacks in 2001 as well as
Internet footage depicting suspected terrorists being subjected to gruesome
torture techniques like waterboarding and bodily stress positions by American
CIA agents Americans had become desensitized to your typical slasher films and
so a sub-genre focusing on body horror emerged alongside the rise of the horror
comedy there would be just as much anger at the start of the new decade due to
inaccurate portrayals of the queer Community as there had been at the end of the
last one unfortunately outdated homophobic stereotypes jokes and slurs persisted
in the media depictions of queer people especially in the horror genre Kelly
Rowland a real-life member of Destiny's Child plays the character of Kia in the
slasher Blockbuster Freddy vs Jason which had the guts to include a homophobic
slur intended at horror Legend Freddy Krueger the question is posed what kind of
runs around in a Christmas sweater I don't know what else could serve as a
better time capsule for the early 2000s than this line Chris egerton editor of
billboard magazine said Kia uses it as a term of denigration and emasculation it
is lobbed in an effort to diminish his power just as it has been against LGBT
individuals throughout history you're not even scary she follows up Freddy goes
on to semi-refute this by having Jason brutally murder her if only he could have
murdered that line too Freddy versus Jason wasn't the only example of casual
homophobia finding its way into the horror genre though Millennium horror tends
to Echo the Casual homophobia of the 1980s films like American Psycho which is
set in the 1980s Wall Street World revealed the homophobia rooted in fear of the
other that was at the root of the Decades usage of queer people as punch lines
Patrick Bateman the film's antagonist is a wealthy murderer who takes great
pride in the look of his business suits and the layout of his business card
Peter Staley a closeted gay man in the 1980s who worked in a similar stocks and
bonds environment as character Patrick Bateman and whose story is told in the
documentary how to survive a plague often heard the locker room spill into the
boardroom several times a week some hideous and costly outcome gave cause for a
traitor to slam his telephone against his cubicle or a salesman's chair or one
of the room's many pillars with such force that plastic shards shot across
several tiers almost without variation the targets of Rage were eggs pansies
sissies fairies and suckers Bateman uses homophobic slurs to blend in with his
buddies and is repulsed when his co-worker Lewis tries to seduce him in the
men's restroom prompting Bateman to vigorously wash his gloved hands this type
of toxic masculinity was ingrained in the wealth culture of the 1980s and
dominated boys locker room language well into the New Millennium it would even
be the excuse for Eli Roth's homophobic dialogue in his breakout 2006 film
hostile written and directed by Roth hostile follows Josh Paxton and Ollie three
male friends who travel through Europe in search of girls drugs and good times
would find themselves at the hands of psychotic Killers who pay an expert
hunting team to torture victims the movie is full of violence profanity and bro
talk with several of the characters using gay slurs as forms of insult and
comedy in addition while riding the train Josh gets touched on the leg by a
stranger who then says what is your nature after Josh has yelled at the man the
latter is ejected from their train car when Josh runs into this same man again
this time behind a bar he tries to make amends his Pals tease him by calling him
because of course they do this individual who tells Josh he is gay eventually
turns out to be the one responsible for Josh's murder poetry in motion
eniochialo wrote about the homophobia of hostile in fengoria magazine in 2006
the lesson learned no matter how nice they seem never be nice to a homosexual
because in the end they'll get you the characters continuously refer to each
other as Edgar you're gay and everyone laughs and everything is Jolly but not
for a lot of queer rights supporters I understand that this is just a horror
film and that it probably won't impact much of society but as long as a movie
like this continues to Target an audience of teens to late 20s heterosexual
males issues of anti-gay Prejudice will never be satisfied Roth initially met
this criticism with a reaction akin to boys will be boys the following year a
musician turned director Rob Zombie and noted Ally released his remake of John
Carpenter's Halloween as with Roth's hostile homophobia rears its ugly head with
slurs littered throughout the film however while Roth's use of homophobia is
more gratuitous chalked up to Young people's vernacular zombies frequent uses of
homophobic slurs particularly the epsler are said by characters the audience is
not supposed to empathize with but rather revile unlike Roth's protagonists
hostile part 2 is an example of how a filmmaker can actually take criticism and
grow this film is still Tethered to the torture porn trend of post-9 11 horror
so no character is safe from mutilation but the film does feature a queer lead
character who is level-headed and not fetishized she dies of course because well
hostile but you know baby steps and those baby steps were needed film historian
Vito Russo said gave his ability has never really been an issue in the movies
it's how they have been visible that has remained offensive for almost a century
so no more films about homosexuality instead more films that explore people who
happen to be gay in America and how their lives intersect with the dominant
culture he said this in the 80s as the New Millennium lumbered on fresh gay
narratives were much appreciated if rare it was time for a new narrative one
that didn't dwell on the difficulties of being queer in America but instead
focused on everyday Americans who just happened to be queer in 2002's May a
young woman is bullied as a child due to her lazy eye May is strange and
withdrawn and has difficulty connecting with others she develops feelings for
Adam a local mechanic and is also fascinated by Paulie an outgoing co-worker at
the animal hospital where she works Polly is hopelessly in love with May and
makes repeated attempts to seduce her she encourages me to come out of her
comfort zone but she doesn't know about May's unorthodox friend a doll May
speaks with when nobody's around the audience sympathizes with this odd girl who
just wants some attention despite the fact that she turns into a horrible killer
later in the film spurred on by Adam dumping her and calling her strange May
runs away from Adam's attempts to avoid her and into the arms of Paulie who says
to kiss you since I first saw you May is skeptical at first but she soon
discovers that she actually likes Polly Polly noticing May's reticence says do
you feel weird diamonds I am weird despite the fact that Paulie and her other
lover Ambrosia are eventually killed by May in her quest to construct a doll out
of human parts in the style of a modern-day Frankenstein's monster neither
paulies nor May's sexualities are to blame simply put their lesbians in a horror
film doomed to the same fate as countless other female protagonists in the genre
nothing special about being queer in a horror movie early 2000s gave birth to
the Blockbuster horror parody via the Wayans brothers scary movie franchise many
problematic and highly stereotypical gay male personas were invented by the
comedy duo before the scary movie films Damon Wayans and David Alan Grier played
campy flamboyant gay Cinema critics Blaine Edwards and Antoine Meriweather on
the enormously successful TV show In Living Color conceived and produced by
Keenan Ivory Wayans critics and fans of the show have argued about whether or
not the presence of Edwards and Meriwether is objectionable and whether or not
it's a rare opportunity for mainstream audiences to experience gay black male
sexuality on film in 1990 okay black filmmaker Marlon Riggs said I feel very
ambivalent it plays into the stereotypes the dominant culture has of us but
that's not my concern not that they're Queens they're Camp Queens but rather
it's an image of Queens who function in a way that justifies all the very
traditional beliefs about black gay sexuality it plays into an ocean of black
asexuality held by the black gay community a notion that black gay men are
sissies ineffectual ineffective woman-ish in a way that signifies inferiority
rather than empowerment Luann's Brother's first film scary movie perhaps learned
from the past mistakes while sadly still retaining key personality features when
creating the character of Rey a masculine football player with a girlfriend who
is not so secretly gay his homosexual Antics in both the first and second film
of the series recall both Hollywood's perpetuation of homophobic stereotypes and
the gay antics of the characters of In Living Color Rey's homosexuality is
strongly implied by the fact that he is constantly making lewd advances toward
his male peers listening to its reigning Men by The Pointer Sisters in the car
and eagerly sprinting to the locker room showers to smack his male teammates on
the behind with a wet towel Rey even makes the culturally significant gesture of
tucking his penis between his legs in front of his companions a move made famous
by Buffalo Bill in Silence of the Lambs scary movie also has the pretty damn
transphobic character of Ms man a girl's gym coach played by female bodybuilder
Jane tricka man makes a number of lewd comments to the girls and even seen
sniffing their underwear in the office at one point scary movie Man reveals to
Cindy that the only reason she underwent gender confirmation surgery from male
to female was so that she might have an advantage over her competitors in
athletics and we wonder why the more ignorant Among Us are so worried about
trans people playing sports any attempt at humor in man's predatory behavior is
rendered even more toxic by the presence of an SS uniform hanging behind her
desk the idea of the predatory queer Nazi persists as evidenced by Ms man's SS
costume even Buffalo Bill displays Nazi memorabilia in his home in the last 15
minutes of the film there is a brief shot of a bed spread with a swastika design
Ms man was made for comedy despite the gravity associated with her casual Nazi
SS costume in this horror comedy parody the queerness is both meant to be funny
yet predatory with the killers of the first film both being gay Camp satire
slasher psycho beach party adapted from the 1987 play by drag Superstar Charles
bush is on the Other Extreme of the horror parody Spectrum as an Ode to and
critique of the camp of the 1960s Bush's psycho beach party 30 mocks can't be B
movies while also highlighting the queerness of the genre and confounding queer
preconceptions Florence Chiclet Forest our protagonist is a girl who aspires to
be normal just like the boys so she can surf with them within the first 10
minutes of the film The unassuming bully Rhonda makes comments on Chiclets
gender identity because she is not as hyper feminine as the other girls of the
1960s Rhonda says she heard Chiclet went off to Denmark for the summer I heard
you going there to have some sort of an operation Operation yeah I heard you're
having your dick cut off and turning into a girl a clear reference to Christine
Jorgensen who underwent gender confirmation surgery in Denmark in 1952 becoming
world famous in the process psycho beach party also makes an obvious reference
to Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho through Chiclets ominous split personality that
alludes to her being the murderer plaguing the teens on the beach as for the men
most of the beach sequences have them flaunting their chiseled physiques and
strutting around like confident Surfers but when yo-yo and provlone to Surf
buddies engage in a half-naked wrestling match on the sand twice it becomes
evident that they aren't being entirely honest Bush makes sure their unrequited
love is pointed out all throughout the movie culminating in a big kiss even
Chiclets nerdy independent best friend berdine who would rather analyze the
subtext of horror films than date boys tries to make a pass on her best friend
and soul mate but like so many queer couplings in film they don't quite make it
to the finish line the United States of America in the 2010s was teeming with
newly discovered representation in both pop culture and mainstream life
homophobic and transphobic Americans often respond negatively to this newfound
visibility and celebration of queer history and culture although marriage
equality passed through the Supreme Court in 2013 the election of Donald Trump
in 2016 portended difficult days ahead for the queer community in the U.S for
queer Americans Trump's selection of openly anti-gay Mike Pence as vice
president was a clear signal that his government would be far less welcoming
than the previous one despite Trump's own half-hearted attempts to appeal to
queer voters all of this led to a terrorist attack on the queer community which
would become the bloodiest mass shooting in U.S history up to that time a
shooter opened fire at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando Florida on June 12 2016.
there were 50 fatalities the vast majority of them LGBT Latino men after the
events of September 11 2001 this was the worst terrorist assault in the United
States and the deadliest mass shooting in American history since the Pulse
Nightclub was so well known for its queer clientele it was immediately
recognized as the target of a homophobic attack when news of the shooting spread
another blow was dealt to the queer community on July 26 2017 when President
Trump declared his intention to Bar transgender people from serving in the U.S
military in a series of tweets and yet despite the devastating and frustrating
defeats queer Americans endured throughout the Trump Administration film would
prove more accessible than ever to the experiences of queer people even more so
than in other genres horror films regularly feature dozens of queer characters
often depicted with Grace and respect for the queer experience horror at its
best has always been political from Invasion of the Body Snatchers extrapolating
the fear of the Cold War into stories of violent alien encounters tonight of the
Living Dead having the black hero of a zombie apocalypse slain by white police
officers this sub-genre of fiction takes a fantastic and horrific look at the
state of American politics it's possible that the generally positive gay
portrayals and horror films of the 2010s could help to counter The increased
hostility and backlash that had been directed at members of the community after
the election of Donald Trump and the emergence of white supremacist Neo-Nazi
movements all across the country sometimes horror movies even act as a Force for
good as part of their marketing campaigns for new films one of the bloodiest
film franchises in history saw had organized wildly successful blood donation
campaigns since the franchise's Inception in 2004 the blood drive has been an
integral part of the saw franchise serving both to promote the famed torture
porn blood Fest that are the saw films and to thank donors with complementary
seats to the premiere in 2017 the campaign took a more political turn drawing
attention to the discriminatory of blood donation policies that Target gay men
the FDA instituted a lifetime prohibition on any potential male donor who had
had sex with a man at the outset of the AIDS crisis even though blood donation
programs are mandated to check all participants blood this implies that gay
blood is inherently unhealthy and undesirable social media personalities with
huge queer fan bases were featured in the blood drives campaign in 2017. as of
now the saw blood drives have collected over 250 000 pints of blood despite the
fact that few are safe from the clutches of evil and horror movies the genre has
in recent years provided a welcoming environment in which gay characters can be
explored and regarded seriously like in happy death day and happy death day to
you where a recurring queer character named Tim is given multiple opportunities
to come out at first glance he comes across as a typical sexist dude bro but is
revealed by the protagonist to be in fact gay Tim's screen time is relatively
short in both movies but the director's decision to incorporate and emphasize
what may seem like a side narrative to the main plot will always stick with gay
viewers the film's director the openly gay Christopher Landon was bullied as a
child for being gay and an outcast as a child Landon sought comfort in horrific
stories which sparked his interests and Ambitions in the horror genre by
including Tim's narrative in his films the director sends a message of
acceptance to the many other queer Youth and adults all across the world Don
Mancini via his iconic Child's Play franchise is well known for queering horror
a bit more with each installment especially with 2004's Seed of Chucky Glenn
slash Glenda they them pronouns child of Chucky and his doll bride Tiffany was
separated at Birth from their parents in the final scene of Bride of Chucky
Mancini's use of the names Glenn and Glenda for the character calling back to
the Edward classic Glenn or Glenda six years after being born in a New Jersey
cemetery and being taken to the UK by a cruel Puppet Master the child now known
as [ __ ] decides to go in search of their parents in Hollywood after seeing
commercials for a film featuring two dolls with the same made in Japan markings
on their wrists Glenn slash Glenda is mistaken for a boy at first because of
their haircut and the way their Puppeteer refers to them but when Chucky and
Tiffany finally get to meet their offspring they get into an argument over
whether or not they should be called Glenn or Glenda she just had an accident
you mean he had an accident even though Chucky has chosen the name Glenn for his
future child Tiffany insists that they be called Glenda and I'm gonna call you
Glenn the name is that for a girl your name is Glenda they pull down Glenn slash
blender's pants to show that they like all other dolls have nothing going on
down there this genitalia scene points out the absurdity of choosing a child's
gender and how parents expectations and desires get in the way of what a child
actually wants in a rather Progressive scene Tiffany and Chucky have a dialogue
with Glenn slash Glenda about who they want to be I want a girl I want a boy
what about what I want well which is it sometimes I feel like a boy sometimes I
feel like a girl no matter what happens we'll deal with it together as a family
as a result of their conversation Tiffany now supports her child's non-binary
gender expression Noreen giffney and Myra J heard in queering the non-human
discuss just how imperative this scene is in This brilliant intersexual thematic
gender legibility is shown to be important for the parents not the child and the
film foregrounds the ways in which normative identity requires stable gender in
refusing to be either Glenn or Glenda and insisting on being both Chucky and
Tiffany's kid focuses our attention on the horrific effects of heteronormativity
and turns attention away from the monstrosity of The Ambiguously gendered body
the queer future of horror depicted in Glenn Glenda is one that places a greater
emphasis on the problematic social constructions of gender and the fact that
queer people and Dolls exist not to be a spectacle but to have truthful
narratives told about them the monstrosity is in the way their parents quarrel
about their gender not in the way Glenn slash Glenda looks or acts Mancini
utilizes Glenn slash Glenda to show that a non-binary person is valid and should
be able to study their gender identity and sexuality without the influence of
others rather than showing the character as a horrific device bodies belong to
those who habit them transgender and non-binary people exist across the queer
sexuality and gender spectrum and as such they should not be forced into tiny
acceptable boxes under Mancini's Authority Seed of Chucky is gloriously queer
and refuses to paint trans and non-binary bodies as violent and grotesque
despite their physical scary doll appearance Mancini continued his queer
inclusion with the following Chucky films The Curse of Chucky in 2013 and Cult
of Chucky in 2017 but most of all in the new TV series simply titled Chucky in
which we find ourselves watching the development of a sweet gay teen romance in
the middle of a horror show when 14 year old Jake wheeler gets his hands on the
titular possessed doll things get interesting for the budding artist who has a
crush on classmate Devin Chucky played once again by Brad Dourif and not the
knockoff Mark Hamill version I love Mark Hamill but no Chucky may still enjoy
ingeniously killing off his victims by means of electrocution or throwing them
out of Windows or stabbing them but he also has a lot of heart and it's not just
a heart that he stole from somebody else's body the show is fundamentally a
coming-of-age story despite being marketed as a coming-of-rage story and Jake's
developing queerness is presented as both instrumental and incidental to the
plot his first love just happens to be a boy while Chucky arguably represents
his inner turmoil when Jake's drunken and violent father teases him about his
interests in dolls and his tendency to spend time alone Jake or tortz hi you
don't care that they think I'm weird you just care that they know my and then
Chucky kills him a lovely little inversion of the kill your gaze Trope kill your
homophobes Chucky might say in episode 2 Chucky points out that he has a queer
kid a call back to Glenn slash Glenda you know I have a queer kid you have a kid
gender fluid you're you're cool with it I'm not a monster Jake and as we've come
to expect from the child's play franchise since 1998's Bride of Chucky
introduced Jennifer Tilly to the series the show is deliciously camp with Tilly
returning to chew the scenery and Fiona Dora vying for her MVP Crown as a young
version of her father Brad's character Charles Lee Ray the serial killer who's
transferred via blood magic into Chucky Mancini has stated that he's infused his
work with a queer sensibility whether through the use of black humor the
inclusion of queer supporting characters or the portrayal of Glenn slash
glinda's struggle to determine their gender identity in Seed of Chucky Tilly
recalled how producers deemed Seed of Chucky which features John Waters a
Britney Spears look-alike and Hannah from S Club 7 getting killed off by the
doll to be too gay though they maybe should have realized that when they had a
movie about a non-binary doll starring Jennifer Tilly but in a genre with queera
tours such as screams Kevin Williamson who says the Scream movies are coded gay
survival Hellraisers Clive Barker and final destinations Jeffrey Reddick queer
references traditionally had to be subtext that's one of the joys of Chucky that
it gives outright representation to slasher film fans who previously had to find
it piecemeal where they could usually in villains who could not identify with
Jason a kid bullied for being different and then gets to come back and have his
revenge on the preppy jocks who made his childhood a living hell but now
Chucky's Jake gets to do what very very few have done before not only be a rare
final boy but one who makes it to the end and gets the guy even though horror
has become much more diverse in recent years there's still something queerly
revelatory about anchoring a 33 year old stab-happy franchise a better killer
doll to an adolescent gay love story further cementing Chucky's Legacy as a
queer icon who quite literally slays queer people have developed an unusual
system of identification you see we queers have always been reduced to villains
or worthless Side characters with little to no backbone because of this terrible
dearth of positive representation gay people have had to make a choice identify
with the side character or the main villain and so we connect with these
perceived evil characters because of their overt or covert queerness such as Dr
pretorius from the Bride of Frankenstein or Countess Maria's Alaska from
Dracula's daughter we have become accustomed to identifying with the villain due
to the fact that film has historically repressed us and designated us as
scapegoats for villainy as a result marginalized people desperate for
representation continue to adopt these horror monsters as their own to celebrate
as anti-heroes final girls are also being embraced by queer people who want to
be symbolized by powerful empathetic androgynous Victors of Oppression traits
that are undoubtedly familiar to many throughout the queer Spectrum in horror
the final girl is typically portrayed as a heterosexual cisgender white woman
because straight white faces have dominated horror films from the earliest days
of the silent horror era the final girl's look has been cliched and expected
fans of horror who are black Asian gay trans Hispanic non-binary or any other
race gender or sexual orientation other than the stock model for the sole
survivor and horror films must find themselves within the characterizations of
the final girl in films with little to no minority representation despite her
outward appearance looking for representation beyond the physical may be
satisfying for individuals particularly gay people when one looks beyond the
white female face of the final girl one might find amazing personality qualities
and attributes that mirror the gay experience the final girl may appear to be a
gorgeous face on the surface but on the inside she is brimming with the
fortitude strength and persistence required to fight monstrous slashers and high
school bullies qualities that many queer people have gained in order to thrive
in a queerphobic world Carol J Clover a cinema and gender historian and Final
girl specialist deconstructs what a final girl means in the horror Canon her
Book Men Women in chainsaws provides a hypothesis for what the Final Girl
implies in a horror film as well as the characteristics that make her a feminist
hero the final girl is usually the only character who is mentally developed with
wits and Brawn in times of peril and finally beats the villain towards the
conclusion of the film audiences relate with her since she is usually the lone
rational character even if she makes mistakes along the way such as going up the
stairs instead of sprinting out the front door the final girl's humanity is
acknowledged she is the one who brings down the oppressor and the crowd cheers
her on Clover explains that she is by any measure the slasher film's hero the
final girl has not just manned herself she specifically unmans the oppressor the
Final Girl holds the traits required not just to preserve herself for No One
generally comes to her Aid but also to avenge all those slaughtered and
tormented by the oppressor her bravery though is not gendered despite the name
given to the horror film survivors the final girl is neither conventionally or
stereotypically feminine she is a hybrid of masculine and female characteristics
as Clover states she alternates between registers of masculine and feminine from
the outset before her final struggle she endures the deepest throws of
femininity and even during that final struggle she is now weak and now strong
now flee's the Killer and now charges him now stabs and is stabbed now Cries Out
In Fear And now shouts in anger she is a physical female and character illogical
Androgen the concept of the final girl actually being non-binaries kind of
groundbreaking in terms of gender queer identity films like Brian De Palma's
carry allow for identification by mistreated Outsiders who desire just to fit in
but reach a Breaking Point from which there's no return Clover's theoretical
final girl perspective allows us to see clear-cut final girls like Nancy
Thompson in a Nightmare on Elm Street in a new light Nancy Thompson is a young
high school student struggling with the strange death of her closest friend and
persistent dreams of a burnt man in a red and green sweater Freddy Krueger the
infamous child killer although she looks to be the adorable girl next door
Nancy's Talent stem from her bravery and confronting Krueger in her nightmares
and her ability to bring him into the real world when no one else would or could
she outwits the adversary while also fighting her oppressor physically Heather
langenkamp who plays Nancy in the film spoke with gay times about the
significance of her role among gay horror fans she was surprised to see that
many young gay men relate with Nancy who they see as a crucial character in the
film series as a whole more than langenkamp had anticipated further more lesbian
women can recognize themselves in the All-American Girl Next Door in the
framework of Nancy's story in the first Nightmare on Elm Street film Nancy
although having a boyfriend rarely thinks of him romantically they're more than
Pals pledging to protect each other from the evil Freddy Krueger but when Glenn
tries to initiate sex with a preoccupied Nancy at her best friend Tina's Place
early in the film Nancy's comforting Tina while she's home alone and plagued
with fears of the man in her nightmares Nancy stops him saying not now ourselves
Nancy is a character on a mission to defend her friends while also killing
Freddy Krueger she has no time for adolescent activities which is a
characteristic shared by practically all final girls that's why they make it out
alive movies like A Nightmare on Elm Street and Halloween which along with the
Texas Chainsaw Massacre kind of birthed the Final Girl archetype are not meant
to be queer nevertheless the character of the final girl in each as well as
across the spectrum of Horror can be used as a vessel for queer experience
oppression and Hope the Final Girl depicts a monstrous gender a gender that
splatters rips at the seams and then is stitched back together as something
messier than male or female though Clover theorizes that the final girl's
Essence is non-binary her body becomes a place where queer people of All Sorts
can project their experience and find solace in seeing themselves Triumph on
screen and their tormentors whatever or whomever the Tormentor represents to
them perish by their own queer hand Joshua Anderson in his essay the Final Girl
an lgbtq representation states that the journey through that confusion of coming
to terms with your sexuality is in essence the journey that these final girls
take when they are chased and battered almost to the brink of death for those of
us who grew up in a world where what we were learning about ourselves was
considered immorally or internally wrong queer people in their bodies have been
utilized by and for horror for over a century the bodies of queer horror
characters bruised and bleeding had largely witnessed abuse and Scorn their
lives utilized for Wicked actions or malicious laughter the growing
identification of queer people with the Final Girl represents a psychological
need to repair the damage that horror has inflicted on queer bodies and Minds in
the past as well as a need to reclaim a genre that has explicit queer Roots but
lost sight of such roots somewhere in the 20th century this drive for
reclamation is a reaction to the bullying of queer people in horror films and
Society in general horrific fiction has traditionally found a fertile ground in
the fear of femininity it's the driving force behind The Exorcist in which a
male demon takes over a girl's body and transforms her into a muttering twisted
and self-mutilating Monster Rosemary and Rosemary's Baby is pregnant but not
with a human child she wants instead she is a host for the son of the devil when
she realizes this she takes drastic action by changing her hairstyle from a
demure Bob to a harsh boyish pixie which her complicit husband publicly condemns
movies like this transform natural processes like puberty and pregnancy into
Tales of demonic Invasion by imbuing them with satanic potency they use the same
method that was used to make the monsters in Silence of the Lambs and psycho
only backward the trans feminine is a common theme in many horror films with
characters like Buffalo Bill preying on young girls for their skin and Norman
Bates killing as his mother to prevent trans feminine persons from using women's
restrooms and shelters turfs and far-right fear mongers invoke the image of the
wild predatory transphalus fear of the transmasculine a group far more dismissed
by Society has been rarely voiced in mainstream Publications before recently
nevertheless transmasculinity is still a breach of gender norms and since it
most frequently affects people who have uteruses and so have the capacity to
produce children it elicits a special kind of fear that is cloaked in
condescending compassion a particularly contentious report from Jessie's single
attempts to argue that it has become too easy for young trans people to begin
gender confirmation procedures that some young people may be misdiagnosing
severe gender dysphoria as something less serious such as sadness anxiety or
patriarchal oppression meanwhile I've spoken to trans people who took so long to
start their transition because Society had convinced them that their dysphoria
was all just internalized misogyny at the same side I have read testimonies from
a number of trans people who figured out that they were trans because of gender
Euphoria not dysphoria as though the subjective experience of gender were a
nefarious opaque mystery he asks where is the line between not feeling like a
girl because society makes it difficult to be a girl and needing hormones to
alleviate dysphoria that otherwise won't go away in a particularly revealing
thought single rights that kids who go on puberty blockers and then on cross-sex
hormones may not be able to have biological children as though the life of a
theoretical future child matters more than the life of a potentially trans but
certainly already living child 2018's hereditary plays upon the fears single
stirs up the film's villain Charlie loses their grandmother at the start of the
film after the funeral their mother Annie checks in on them in a scene in which
Charlie reveals that their grandmother wanted them to be a boy but their mother
responds as though she's heard something else something like I want to be a boy
declaring that they were a tomboy growing up but in the end they got over it we
never see Charlie interact with their grandmother so we never find out exactly
why she felt like they were supposed to be a boy but Charlie makes it quite
apparent that they feel disconnected from their physical form they have an
extreme allergy to nuts walk in a shuffle don't look at people directly create
Effigies out of garbage and constantly click their tongue their mother feels
they need to be socialized so their older brother Peter reluctantly brings them
to a party where they stand out like a sore thumb an awkward 13 year old in a
knee-length orange sweatshirt clutching to their brother because they don't know
what else to do Peter forces Charlie to eat chocolate cake so he and his Crush
can get high but there's walnuts in that cake and Charlie's throat begins to
constrict and they barge in and beg for help from their brother who's in the
middle of a bong hit in his haste to get them to the hospital he swerves around
a dead deer and decapitates Charlie on a telephone pole as they were leaning out
the window for air in a horrified Haze Peter travels home goes to sleep and
awakens to his mother's cries of anguish the camera cuts from Peter's anguished
face to an indelible shot of Charlie's severed head swarming with ants but
Charlie's beheading was no accident it was part of a ceremony to free them from
their body and reveal their true identity as pymon the eighth king of hell they
get occult's help to torment Peter into a possessed State at which point they
take over his body as Peter Charlie clicks his tongue to show that he is now in
control slowly he makes his way up to his tree house where his cult members are
waiting to anoint him King one of the cult's leaders assures Charlie that he is
okay now Charlie now in the body of Peter gazes just beyond the camera mouth
slightly a gape he does not look afraid if anything he seems for the first time
to be at home the fact that Charlie's transition calls for such Extreme Measures
of physical violence reflects a residual fear among many CIS people the
transition is a type of Mutilation and at worst a kind of death the sloughing
off of one body in exchange for a new different one those who identify as trans
masculine may have their desire to transition misunderstood as a magnetic draw
away from the submissive gender and toward the dominant one a power play rather
than an act to feel whole as a person if hereditary were a typical drama it
would simply follow the family disillusion surrounding the transition of a child
the over-dramatic concept of a person dying and a new one being born a
fantastically fictitious morning process that so many CIS people say they have
to go through when friends or family transition but because it's a horror movie
we get actual death murder possession and a literal king of Hell a queer person
is never given more power than within the scenes of a horror movie and if
hereditary says anything about the trans experience it's that it's a hell of a
lot easier to change your body than to change your soul in March of 2020 as the
world failed to prepare for the coming covid-19 pandemic so did Hollywood the
film industry's reaction was for the most part to Simply shut down for months
movie theaters were deserted and many customers didn't return to theaters at all
the following year since streaming services had taken over the void traditional
Studios had left empty in response several companies shifted their focus to
online streaming and video on demand Services among the earliest horror films to
make the quick transition from theaters to streaming was freaky which originally
opened in cinemas in October of 2020 and then became available on streaming
services two months later slasher comedy freaky directed by Christopher Landon
of happy death day includes Josh the protagonist's gay best friend in the
history of horror having a gay best friend is Not Unusual the non-binary actor
Misha oshirovich who played Josh said my character is a gay best friend but also
a commentary on the gay best friend both they and Nyla an African-American
character who befriends the protagonist are depicted as independent characters
who highlight the genre's history of discrimination in one scene Josh says to
Nyla as the slasher that once took the form of Vince Vaughn now inhabits the
body of their best friend Millie and is on a murderous Rampage you're black I'm
gay we are so dead filmmakers in the horror genre now have a Keener
understanding of Their audience and make no deliberate effort to turn away from
underrepresented groups the slasher movies Halloween kills and the new Candyman
both feature gay male couples although in each film only one of them survives to
the end horror fans know that Killers don't care who they kill but what makes
these two films Stand Out is the attention paid to the relationships between
these couples queer bodies are no longer a source of Terror queer bodies were
exploited to shock terrify and make audiences laugh during the bulk of the 20th
century there were punching bags sissies Phantoms and ghosts monsters beneath
the bed and in the closet queer horror Figures were rarely much more than fodder
for American gay Terror over the last two decades though a new queer era has
emerged in which queer people in horror May gain empathy from viewers however in
order to comprehend the decade's significance previous failures and
accomplishments must be remembered horror films are historical time capsules
whether it's aliens representing foreigners vampires representing sexually
promiscuous disease carriers or vicious serial killers each picture represents
the concerns of the day looking back at the history of horror queer people will
undoubtedly see how we were utilized for violence humor sympathy and Dread
however if a queer person looks deeper it will find themselves as they have in
the pages of History as survivors final girls final boys and final people in
which to place themselves more victoriously than in the monsters that American
society has tried to turn them into and at the same time perhaps we can own the
power of the cisgender straight majority accidentally gave to us via the movie
Monster the slasher returning from the grave to take revenge on the
heteronormative stand-in of the day the monster created by society and then
disowned by it the Misunderstood Beast looking for its brood we are and always
have been the heroes of our own stories even if we were the monsters and theirs
and so we made the monsters the hero and now we've even taken ownership of the
Gilded Heroes themselves we are the monsters we are the heroes and no matter how
many times they think they've beaten us we always get up one more time [Music]
[Music] [Music] foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] thank you [Music]