---
redirect_from:
  - "/videos/tk9wh5rbmw0"

date: 2022-06-14
title: The Queer Sensibilities of Cinema
status: In Progress
aka: !!seq
  - "How The Gays Stole Cinema"
  - "The Mainstreaming of Camp"
  - "The Beauty of Camp"
  - "Camp (Thumbnail)"
topics: !!seq
links: !!seq
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-youtube-2023-12-03"
  - "https://archive.org/details/james-somerton-videos-backup"
# description: "a video essay on...?"
notes:
  - multipart
  - behind-scenes
  - w-nick-james

history:
  2022-06-14: First published.
  2023-12-07: Privated post-callout.

contributors:
  downloaded: $cite$TerraJRiley
  citation: 
    - "[/uGrand_Pineapple_4223](https://www.reddit.com/r/hbomberguy/comments/18a50c1/comment/kc2vdhh)"

cite:
  clips: !!map
  yikes: !!map
  misinformation: !!map
  plagiarized: !!map
    
---
{% assign tustin = site.data.cite.tustin2121 %}

<compare>
{% include meta-history video=page %}
<credits class="desc">

PATREON: [link]

{% include chapter-link at="00:00" for="Introduction" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="04:42" for="All About Eve" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="10:48" for="Whatever Happened To Baby Jane?" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="25:28" for="Who's Afraid if Virginia Woolf?" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="37:52" for="Mommie Dearest" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="59:46" for="Intermission" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:00:39" for="Clue" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:07:02" for="Death Becomes Her" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:20:13" for="Elvira" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:26:17" for="Batman" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:38:47" for="Drag Queen Road Trips" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:46:36" for="But I'm a Cheerleader" %}  
{% include chapter-link at="01:52:56" for="Climax" %}  

#gay #lgbt #videoessay

</credits>
</compare>

{% include transcript-start %}

<compare>
<credits {% include timecode %}>

</credits>
<comment>
{% include header for=tustin %}

Note: This video is a compilation of two previous videos. Additionally, one section of part 1 was spun out into its own video after this compilation video was released.

In lieu of copy-pasting the previous transcripts, to facilitate not having multiple copies of things lying around, I will be linking out to these videos' transcripts. I will make note if anything has changed between the previous video and this one.

</comment>
</compare>

<compare>
<james meta fade=out {% include timecode %} id="ch1-in">

This video is brought to you by my patrons. If you'd like to support my channel and get access to extras like audio commentaries, a patron exclusive podcast and uncut videos, you can join by clicking the link in the description. 

</james>
<subvideo>

See Part 1 for the Cold Open

{%- assign subvid = site.videos | where: "slug", "Camp-000001" | first -%}
{% include video-card video=subvid anchor="parent-start" %}

</subvideo>
<james meta fade=in id="title-in">

But if that logic applied to straight men... why are any number of Westerns not held up by the gays? Because these cowboys often got *very* close and vulnerable with each other. Instead, we gravitated toward a very specific iteration of femininity in various specific films.

</james>
</compare>


<compare>
<credits {% include timecode %} class="opening">

<u>[Happy music, like something ripped from The Sims; tiny font]</u>

> James Somerton presents

> Written by  
Nick Herrgott  
& James Somerton

> Executive Producers  
[21 patron names in two columns]

> Producers
[Patron names in columns: 19, 19, 19, and 14 names]

> Edited and Directed by  
James Somerton

> Whatever Happened  
To Good Taste?  
> How the gays used camp to steal Hollywood  
> and how the straights tried stealing it back  

</credits>
</compare>

<!-- # Transcript of "How The Gays Stole Cinema" -->

<compare>
<james meta fade=out {% include timecode %} id="title-out">

*All About Eve* is a perfect place to start. Like I said, not the first queer icon movie, but one of the first you may hear referenced. A drag queen may refer to someone as an "Eve Harrington", and you may not know what that means. But what they're doing is accusing someone 

</james>
<subvideo>

{%- assign subvid = site.videos | where: "slug", "Camp-000001" | first -%}
{% include video-card video=subvid anchor="title-end" %}

</subvideo>
<james meta fade=in id="mmd-out">

A fandom that upon the movie's release would hang Christina Crawford in effigy. *Mommie Dearest* legitimized a *whole* group of audiences and creators who were going to do what Dunaway did, but do it on purpose. With or without the ghost of Joan Crawford.

</james>
</compare>

## Intermission

{% assign timecode = "59:46" %}
<compare>
<james meta fade=out {% include timecode %} id="ch2-in">

Believe it or not, studio heads *rarely* know what they're doing. Which is how you can have money catapulted at projects like *Cleopatra* or *Mommie Dearest*. 

<u>[Meme cutaway]:</u> Joan Crawford taking an axe to a tree.

</james>
<subvideo>

{%- assign subvid = site.videos | where: "slug", "Camp-000002" | first -%}
{% include video-card video=subvid anchor="title-end" %}

</subvideo>
<james meta fade=in id="ch2-out">

Yes, all these films are remembered in *no small part* due to the strong queer following, and like Schumacher, queer creators work tirelessly to project camp aesthetic to an otherwise naive and innocent straight audience.

</james>
</compare>

{% assign timecode = "1:38:45" %}

## Part 9: Drag Queen Road Trips

<compare>
<james {% include timecode %}>

<!-- TODO -->

</james>
<from></from>
</compare>

Because camp was an aesthetic so closely associated with drag queens and drag culture it only made
sense that you would start to get movies about them the public was aware that
drag queens existed though usually referred to them as slurs and having them
depicted as anything but punchlines was uncommon and thanks in part to the early
rise to rupaul who somehow managed to break out of gay obscurity and reach a
degree of public renown there was indeed a public curiosity about drag queens
and two movies about drag queens were released at roughly the same time now the
adventures of priscilla queen of the desert hereafter we'll just refer to it as
priscilla to save time was released in 1994 in australia three drag queens one
of them being a trans woman need to go cross-country to make a career-making
performance this starts hugo weaving guy pierce and terence stamp riding on the
titular priscilla the chrome tour bus that will carry them across the australian
outback the group struggles to get along amid intergenerational tension and all
kinds of road trip hijinks however its status as camp is somewhat difficult to
explain see it's australian which means it comes from a very different
collection of cultural sensibilities leaning on a bit more of what we may
consider to be dry british humor though i struggle to really say it's british
humor because for those who have seen shit's creek or other canadian comedies it
seems like the only former british colony that doesn't seem to prefer dry comedy
is america dry humor is one where a given punch line of a joke is delivered with
less emphasis in a general sense it involves far more sarcasm and delivery and
in comedic styles a reaction to the joke is far less important there's no prompt
to let you know when to laugh it's kind of up to the viewer to use their
reasoning to spot when something is funny in order to generate this kind of
comedy one requires a separate in-world state of absurdity all characters even
the straight characters have full awareness of the inherent rules of this world
and their comedic responses are built around what is outrageous by these
established standards this is abundantly clear in one of the ultimate drag queen
camp movies spice world and sensibilities like those demonstrated in spice world
are opposed to more american styles of comedy where the world is meant to be
normal with a few exceptions like phoebe from friends but as another example i
was inclined to include the british series absolutely fabulous this series
itself is pivotal in establishing sensibilities in the queer community and gets
overlooked for continuously indicating that one of the two primary characters is
actually trans femme without any character having a single problem with it it is
simply an element of the character that is taken for granted which feeds from
the generalized style of comedy where characters simply don't react to the
comedic antics of other characters within the script all individuals take for
granted that this is simply how things are which is the difficulty when it comes
to including international camp media it's played so dry and straight that north
american audiences often assume that this is simply how people act in australia
and the uk so because the comedy is downplayed to find the humor the viewer must
be intimately familiar with the given culture to know where the separation lies
between cultural absurdity and emotional realism such as in priscilla the elder
queen cleaning up the younger one after a gay bashing and the drama revolving
around hugo weaving's character having a child raised by his estranged former
wife and the trans queen falling into a romance with a backcountry mechanic they
meet by happenstance to an audience expecting a comedy to be aceventura it's not
clear when the drama ends and the comedy begins leading many to assume it's
simply a slice of australian life the themes of this movie don't necessarily
focus on gender so much as it refocuses perhaps shedding the proxy of gender
discourse to develop a discussion about queerness as a whole but having an open
discourse about queerness where the messaging of queerness was not directed to
straight people was refreshing and even if they are international actors they
were actors of some renown which is also nice to see actors taking a risk
especially at the time priscilla particularly resonates with me because there's
this kind of ending message that says that it's perfectly okay to modify your
life to accommodate being with other people that it's okay to lean in to other
people and that nobody should really be expected to be entirely independent not
necessarily a queer message but it's nice to hear that we get so much social
pressure to be completely self-sufficient at all these dumb little adulting
things that i feel like we don't take as much time as we should to just let
ourselves be human priscilla made about 30 million dollars on a budget of 2
million which with hollywood accounting is about 26 million dollars profit free
and clear so when it came to hollywood they thought hey let's see if we can do
that tu wangfu thanks for everything julie newmar was actually in development at
roughly the same time as priscilla once again for the sake of expediency we'll
be referring to this as simply to wong vu granted the length of these titles is
kind of camp in and of itself and patrick swayze is marvelous in the lead role
but we could have had willem dafoe instead part of me is a little sad about that
defoe is under consideration for the role but apparently swayze as a test went
out with the director for a broad daylight walk around new york in full drag and
was unclockable this film another road trip features two established queens
noxima jackson played by wesley snipes and vita boem played by swayze bringing a
younger queen under their wing chichi rodriguez played by john leguizamo after
winning a trip to hollywood to enter into a major drag competition they pawn the
plane tickets and use the money to buy a fabulous convertible coupe de ville to
drive to la instead the camp here like with priscilla is featured in how these
girls opt to do the entire trip in drag the early section of the film alludes to
traumatic family life and an attempted sexual assault by a police officer who
stops the working girls on the road without knowing that there were drag queens
their car breaks down a staple of all road trip movies and hijinks ensue when
the queens have to blend into a small town as women because they're never out of
drag apparently chichi becomes enamored with a local boy who believes she's a
girl or a sis girl anyway and the other two queens become frustrated with
country living while they wait for a replacement part for their car through the
duration of the movie they work to improve the lives of the locals including
standing up to the abusive husband of a woman who befriends the group the cop
who had assaulted vida who is ridiculed by his fellow officers for appearing to
have been beaten up by a girl storms over to the town where the queens are
hiding and demands their heads as payment for this humiliation the rest of the
town comes to their aid dressed in the poise of drag and chase them off the town
has a fabulous weekend festival and their car is fixed in hollywood chichi who
had always felt so insecure about her ability to be a drag queen is the winner
of the competition now while this movie like priscilla leans on camp comedy this
is quite toned down from what you would get from diva centric examples like
death becomes her and elvira mistress of the dark it's there but they don't lean
into it as much and this isn't to say that gay movies didn't do camp john waters
has an entire pre-hairspray filmography which i omitted because talking about
it's gonna have to have its own video instead of serving up shameless camp i
feel like the filmmakers here were using the platform to work in some legitimate
feelings and spread awareness which was an ongoing theme of what became a weird
glut of movies about gay people from the 1990s and 2000s kiss me guido mambo
italiano in and out edges 17 etc but the 90s as a whole had a cultural aesthetic
of taking things that were not meant to be serious and making them serious or
using frivolous framing devices to talk about things that were very serious
[Music] now to close out we are going to briefly talk about but i'm a
cheerleader so trigger warning for those who need it this is one of the
quintessential films about conversion therapy but i'm a cheerleader follows the
story of fictional character megan plumfield i specify that the character is
fictional because the more you know about how conversion therapy works the more
this feels like a horror movie because literally everything in this movie is
lifted directly from the practices of conversion therapists also known as
sadists unaware that she is a lesbian she's outed to herself by her family and
then shipped off to a conversion therapy camp the line but i'm a cheerleader is
used by megan as a defense for her presumed heterosexuality the argument here
being that she cannot be a lesbian because she conforms to typical feminine
stereotypes megan becomes trapped in a secluded location with a collection of
other gay and queer people who are out to beat the gay out of them sometimes
literally if needed they are put through a series of heterosexualizing
activities and often separated by gender the girls are pushed towards home
economics cooking cleaning and feminine things in the hopes that it will
overwrite their homosexual desires with the proper heteronormative ones again
given that megan is a cheerleader and very effeminate in her own right these are
not things that she is necessarily uncomfortable with the boys by contrast are
forbidden from cooking and cleaning instead they do manly things like
landscaping and simulated war games i mean when it comes to america's weird take
on like conversion therapy rituals preventing boys from any kind of cooking is
ridiculous like it's almost contradictory because hot cuisine is an industry
dominated by men and i don't really want to get into analyzing the logic of
people who isolate a few passages from the bible as the foundation and basis of
their entire world view but the line between boy things and girl things has been
erased and redrawn throughout history more times than you can fathom heels
introduced to europe as footwear for men so that men would always be distinctly
taller than women gender it's a thing sometimes anyway megan meets a girl graham
as one does at one of these locations and it's heavily implied that these girls
would make very good roommates but now we're getting into the territory of why a
girl like graham who is comfortable in her sexuality would allow herself to go
through this humiliating process as is normally the case it's an ultimatum put
upon kids by their family and the risk is being cast out entirely because that's
what jesus would do apparently very plain to see why the american version of
jesus was not included in neil gaiman's american gods and it's also not like the
conversion process only uses constructive processes to mold and shape gender
roles and identities there are no walls in their dorm rooms for a reason no
masturbation at night permitted and if an attendee experiences any impure
thoughts they are encouraged to shock themselves when caught making out late at
night two boys are reprimanded one runs away the other is kept back and isolated
from the rest of the group forced to sleep in a dog house the one who ran away
is rescued by two former attendees of the camp who then take megan and graham to
a gay bar where megan begins to feel more comfortable with herself and who she
is away from the confines of heterosexual society however when she's caught by
the camp she's forced to leave with graham staying behind megan is rescued by
the ex-ex-gay men and they plan a coup to rescue the kids before their
heterosexual graduation meanwhile back at the camp the gendering rituals become
more humiliating forcing boys and girls to wear skin suits with fig leaves
covering the impure parts they simulate heterosexual intercourse these proper
christians are forcing minors to engage in these rituals and yet we still let
them call themselves christians let alone good people maybe this is just a
catholic in me but i was under the impression that literally only god or jesus
or saint peter had the authority to dictate who was or was not going to hell and
therefore making the decision that another human being for committing whatever
action is going to hell is speaking in the stead of the divine figure and thus
is technically heresy which does sin due to hell but we don't need to get into
theology right now anyway the day is saved the boys get to love boys and graham
runs away with megan protected by the nice gay men in their youth shelter the
movie ends with megan's parents attending a pflag meeting so things are looking
up now while some of you especially those who have lived through experiences
like this may take issue with how much of this content was depicted frivolously
the ridiculous gender rituals were depicted for laughs which is valid if it was
depicted as a psychological thriller it would automatically lose a chunk of the
audience it's simply easier to spread this message around if it's showcased as
something lighthearted essentially trick people into misunderstanding how grave
this subject matter is until the very end anyway camp was used as a means to
give this movie gay appeal beyond simply being a story about our experiences but
also to add a lighthearted angle for straight people who needed to be massaged
into this knowledge but even then with this movie and the drag queen road trips
we see camp deployed as an aesthetic and camp sensibilities arising specifically
where there is discourse about gender however the camp itself is toned down once
again in lieu of realism for the sake of representation camp is used as a
sensibility to highlight the gender discourse but the discourse itself was one
that was meant to be seen when it comes to all about eve it seems to be a
discourse about fame and corruption on the surface whereas given the minutia of
the script it's really about the role of women in show business and the options
that women in show business are given as they age the adventures of julie newmar
the baby's afraid of a cheerleader i mean sorry camp although i totally see that
movie the thing about camp in the end is that it's oddly ageless comedy is the
fastest to age and the most likely to age badly but the extremes of camp leave
it fresh for generations to come the absurdity is a preservative [Music] it
wasn't long before the entertainment industry as a whole recognized the power of
camp not just as a way to covertly bring in queer audiences without actually
showing queer characters but as a way to bring in all audiences you see camp can
be very all-inclusive if you choose to let it be the hyper-masculinity of the
works of directors like michael bay and zack snyder are just as campy as a
busload of drag queens just pushed in the opposite extreme instead of making a
farce out of the femininity they make a farce of the masculinity whether the
director is intended to or not the glistening muscles of 300 spartans lovingly
depicted in slow motion for maximum impact led to posters for that movie
adorning the walls of just as many gay boys as straight boys when it first came
out the sequel was even supposed to feature a gay couple which snyder fought for
but was overruled by the studio at which point he left the project the sequel
instead features lena hedy in the scene-stealing role of queen gorgo a badass
powerful woman ripped from the mind of john waters and planted into a homoerotic
greek epic i'd argue that this is another drag queen role that's played by a
woman and while hollywood was accidentally turning male power fantasies into
peak camp cinema knowing filmmakers were bringing camp into the mainstream the
over-the-top caricature of an aged actress played by catherine o'hara in shit's
creek knowingly took the absurdity of faye dunaway's joan crawford and turned it
up to an 11 and then broke the dial off moira rose former soap opera starlet
seems to exist in a reality in which the golden age of hollywood never ended
even as she lives in a run-down motel clutching onto her fabulous wigs and
outfits for some comfort in the chaotic world of normalcy but this knowing camp
character earned o'hara an emmy for her career defining performance whereas it
earned dunaway or razzie decades before though nobody would argue that moira and
joan are the same kind of character the same kind of performance is given the
difference being that o'hara knows how far she's pushing it and then keeps
pushing at the right moments but brings it back in when needed creating a camp
character you wish you could be friends with instead of one you'd flee from and
of course there's rupaul's drag race now in its 144th season taking every
possible aspect of a camp's sensibility and making it mainstream drag queens who
were once the camp idols drawing crowds at gay bars are now filling stadiums as
the absurdity of a man dressing as joan crawford becomes not so absurd camp has
always had a loving cisgender heterosexual audience who either discovered it
through queer friends or just happened to be heteros with taste here on youtube
cold crash pictures has done more videos about camp classics than i ever have
and he's got a girlfriend even anime has embraced camp the intense masculinity
of shows like dragon ball z with the glistening abs and queer-coated villains
has an unintentional camp factor ed wood would cream their pants over and do not
even attempt to tell me that jojo's bizarre adventure isn't one of the campiest
things ever created in fact one could argue that camp is the primary aspect that
gives jojo's bizarre adventure its primary fandom in susan sontag's defining
essay on camp she explains that camp is a sensibility a mode of aestheticism a
private code a badge of identity the hallmark of camp she says is the spirit of
extravagance it can be broad but not everything can be camp here i disagree
because everything can be camp if it tries hard enough and that i think is my
definition of camp trying hard enough putting your all into something that
others would expect little from seeing where the limits lie and then stepping
over them enjoying your exuberant love of something instead of hiding it the
brilliant cattiness of all about eve the venomous shade of who's afraid of
virginia woolf the fabulous bitchiness of death becomes her the beautiful
absurdity of drag queen road trips the weaponized feminism of pfeiffer's
catwoman the voluptuous feathers and blinding sequins of elton john the living
art projects of david bowie the boundless genre-defying queer energy of freddie
mercury and even the glistening muscles of 300 spartans and anime supermen it's
all camp it's all more than just a little queer and it's all us we queers not so
secretly define the culture we live in no matter what the straits think so this
june of 2022 pride month in the united states go to parties parades events
seminars protests as you normally would but for those of you who don't recognize
entries in this list i hope you make some time for movie marathons by all means
watch the movies on this list but there are so many other movies and shows that
i haven't even mentioned here these are the cultural milestones that have helped
shape queer culture and have helped us endure persecution and scrutiny when the
politicians and the zealots and the turfs and the homophobes and the hate
mongers come for us and push us out the proverbial window we just keep getting
up we've got more than nine lives we've got hundreds thousands millions we
survived the trauma of our own mommy dearests and drank the potion of
immortality so we're going to be around forever no matter how many eve
harringtons try to steal our luster no matter how many small towns try to burn
us at the stake no matter how many fiends try to murder us with a candlestick in
the library we're not going anywhere hell we can take over the whole damn world
because if camp has taught us anything it's how to make the absurd into reality
[Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] baby if you love me you become a
better man [Music] you really like it but you never [Music] baby if you find it
better [Music] foreign [Music] [Music] me [Music] [Music] sexy [Music] six
[Music] [Music] [Music] so [Music] you [Music] [Music] so [Music] uh okay
[Music] do [Music] [Music] oh uh you



# Transcript of the extra chapters
These include sections on:
- The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert
- To Wong, Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julia Newmar
- But I'm a Cheerleader